1
Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapters 1 -10
Index of Chapters with Captions for Important Verses
1. 1. Birth of Hora Sstr
Author’s prayer and introduction
2. Meaning of Hor
3. Rsi Description
Description of the 12 Rasis, limbs of Kalapurusha and their use, synonyms of Ris and Houses,
zodiacal halves, their Lords and effects. Ri and Navma rulers, importance of sub-divisions,
Vargotamamsa, Lords of decanates, Horas, Trimsamsas and Sapthamsas, different Vargas,
benefic and malefic Ris, Gandantha, directions of Ris, DigBala and KalaBala, day and night
Signs, Sirodara & Prishtodara Signs, strength of Rasi, synonyms of Bhavas, additional synonyms,
Kendra, Apoklima and Panaphara, Upachaya and Anupachaya, exaltation and fall, long, medium
and short ascensions of Signs, favourable Ris for journey and colours of Rasis
4. Planetary Characters
Kalapurushas soul etc., limbs from decanates, planetary portfolios, directions and nature,
synonyms of planets, planetary colours, deities, sex, caste, elements, robes, substances, periods
and Ritus, Lords of Vedas and Worlds, description and nature of the planets from the Sun to
Saturn, planetary friendship permanent and temporary, five kinds of consideration of these,
planetary aspects and strengths, directional and positional strengths, temporal and motional
strengths, Ayana, Drekkana, Tribhaga and Naisargika Balas
5. Miscellaneous Matters
States of planets, effects of various states, retrogression in exaltation, good results in mid-life,
Swakshetra, Mlatrikona etc., effects thereof, inauspicious planets, exalted, retrograde, auspicious
planets, Nathonnatha Bala, Lords of year etc., Paksha Bala, planets with all kinds of strengths,
benefics and malefics with such strengths, planetary stages and planets in odd, or even Signs
6. (Yoga) Karakas
Planetary co-workers and effects thereof
7. Planetary Indications
Lord of weekday etc., Bhava effects, planetary rulerships, or Karakatwas and planetary places

-- 1 of 203 --

2
8. Copulation (Conception)
Menstruation, occurrence of pregnancy, disposition of foetus, birth of twins, male, hermaphrodite,
one male child and one female child, triplets etc., parents, process of growth of embryo,
miscarriage, comfortable carrying, adversities to the pregnant woman, progress of progeny, time
of delivery, natal Moon, belated progeny, eye defects, dumbness, dull-witted, teethed at birth,
peculiar birth, short stature, lame by birth and birth sans legs, hands and head
9. Conditions at Birth
Kinds of delivery, place of delivery home, position of cot, delivery on ground, number of
attendants, position of light, birth out of fathers sight, birth out of wedlock, evils to mother,
resemblance, rounded by coil, features, characteristics and nature, death of parents and
happiness to parents
10. Evils at Birth
Need to assess longevity, strength of male/female planets, kinds of evils, longevity curtailed to
minimum, Yogas adverse for eyes and ears, death in few days, effects of time causing a disease,
malefics and decanates, death, exceedingly long life, elapsed longevity, timing infant death, death
in childhood, death in 3rd year, fateful degrees of the Moon etc.
11. Evils and the Moon
Combinations to counteract lunar evils
12. Evils Canceled at Birth
Evils relating to longevity nullified
13. Lunar Yogas
Sunapha, Anapha, Durudhura, Kemadruma, different permutations, other kinds of Sunapha etc.,
results of Sunapha, Anapha, Durudhura by Mars etc., lunar Yogas from the Sun, Moon in invisible
and visible halves and Dhana Yogas
14. Yogas from the Sun
Vasi, Vesi and Ubhayachari, effects of Vasi and Vesi by different planets and effects of ubhayachari
15. Conjunction of Two Planets
16. Conjunction of Three Planets
17. Conjunction of Four Planets
18. Conjunction of Five Planets
19. Conjunction of Six Planets
20. Combinations for Renunciation
21. Nabhasa Yogas
32 Kinds of Nabhasa Yogas, rules for their formation and effects thereof
22. Effects of the Sun
The Sun in 12 Rasis and special effects, when in aspects to other planets
23. Effects of the Moon in Various Rasis

-- 2 of 203 --

3
The Moon in the 12 Rasis and special effects, when in aspects to others
24. Effects of the Moon in Various Navansas
The Moon in various Navansas and in aspect to other planets
25. Effects of Mars in Various Rasis
Mars in 12 Signs and special effects in case of aspects from others
26. Effects of Mercury in Various Rasis
Mercury in 12 Rasis and special effects in case of aspects to other planets
27. Effects of Jupiter in Various Signs
Effects for Jupiters position in different Signs and aspects from other planets
28. Effects of Venus in Various Signs
Effects for Venus positions in different Signs and aspects from others
29. Effects of Saturn in Various Signs
Effects for Saturns position in different Signs and aspects from others
30. Effects of Planets in Bhavas
Sun to Saturn in the 12 Houses and individual results
31. Two Planets in Angles
Effects of all possible 2-planet conjunctions in the Ascendant, 4th, 7th and 10th
32. Ninth House and Effects thereof
The 9th House, Jupiter in the 9th and aspects thereto by individual planets/two planets, affliction to
the 9th, the Sun and others in the 9th with others, 3 planets in the 9th, 4 planets in the 9th, special
effects
33. Tenth House and Effects thereof
The 10th House, individual planets in the 10th from the Moon, two planets in the 10th from the
Moon, three planets in the 10th from the Moon, four planets in the 10th from the Moon, malefics in
the 10th from the Moon, livelihood, Signs and profession, planets in the 10th and source of gain
34. Different Houses and Worldly Affairs
Several planets aspecting the Ascendant, general aspects to the Ascendant, un-aspected
Ascendant, planetary conjunctions in the Ascendant, AdhiYoga from the Ascendant, principles
related to the 2nd House, 3rd House, 5th House, number of children, various kinds of progeny, as
per Hindu Dharma Shastras, sons and daughters, childlessness, loss of children, 6th House, 7th
House, 11th House, 12th House, miscellaneous matters
35. Raja Yogas
36. Planetary Rays
Computation of rays of planets contributed at birth and effects of total number of rays
37. Pancha MahaPurusha Yogas
Malavya, Ruchaka, Sasa, Hamsa and Bhadra Yoga formation and effects

-- 3 of 203 --

4
38. Effects of Natural Constituents and Primordial Compounds
Satva, Rajo and Tamo Gunas, Akasa, Jala, Vayu, Agni and Prithwi Tatwas, births in such
Tatwas, Windy, Bilious and Phlegmatic temperaments, Luminaries in Pancha MahaPurusha
Yogas
39. Obstruction to Rajayogas
40. Calculation of Longevity
Selection of system for longevity, Amsayurdaya calculations, additions for Ascendants
contribution, rectification for planetary contributions, reductions for Amsayurdaya calculations,
Vyayadi Harana, Pindayu, Ascendants contribution in Pindayu, reduction for rising planets,
Naisargikayurdaya, full span of life, unlimited longevity, span of full life for various animals
41. Moola Dasa
Order of the scheme, Satyas view, auspicious periods, inauspicious periods, effects of the Moon,
aspects to the Moon at the commencement of a Dasha, major Lords placement at the
commencement of a Dasha, special effects based on Navansa, Lagna Dasha, Naisargika Dasha,
effects of adverse and favourable planets Dasha, different kinds of Dashas of the Luminaries
based on their dispositions, other placements of planets
42. Effects of Sub-Periods
Distribution of sub-periods to planets in Moola Dasa, Dasa-Bhuktis thereof, special considerations
43. Evil Effects of Dasa
44. Antidotes for Evi l Dashas
45. Effects of Planetary Dignities
Effects of exalted planets, planets in Mlatrikona, own Signs, friendly Signs, debilitation Signs,
inimical Signs, effects in Navansa, more planets in exaltation, in Mlatrikona, in own Signs, friendly
Signs, inimical Signs and debilitation
46. Female Horoscopy
Important Houses, the Moon and the Ascendant, Trimsamsa positions, Moon/Ascendant in
various Trimsamsas of various Signs, beastly lust of a female, unchaste, mother and daughter to
be unchaste, miscellaneous, rulers of the 7th Sign and 7th Navansa, planets in the Ascendant, 8th
House, female with masculine disposition, religious order, Vedic exponent, application of rules
47. Aphorisms of Death
Reasons of death, death by drowning/fall, fire, hanging, due to a female, tridents hit, hit by wood,
by a club, due to royal wrath, due to insects, intoxicants and machinery, in filthy surroundings, by
thirst, weapons and birds, 22nd decanate, 22nd decanate related to the 36 decanates of the Zodiac
and reasons of death therefrom.
48. Lost Horoscopy
Effects of births in the 12 different Ascendants in the context of lost horoscopy

-- 4 of 203 --

5
49. Effects of Horas
24 halves of the 12 Signs and effects thereof in the context of lost horoscopy
50. Effects of Decanates
36 decanates of the Zodiac and effects thereof in the context of lost horoscopy
51. Effects of Navansas
108 Navansas of the Zodiac and effects thereof in the context of lost horoscopy
52. Lost Horoscopy
The natal Ayana, other natal factors, position of the querist, personal name, another method, lost
horoscopy based on the Moon at query
53. AshtakaVarga
Planetary BhinnashtakaVargas, method of preparation of A.V. charts
54. Effects of AshtakaVarga
Effects of the A.V. of planets from the Sun to Saturn
55. Manifold Births

-- 5 of 203 --

6
Chapter 1.
Birth of Horasastra
1. Glory to the Sun-God, whose very breathing causes Creation in this world, with whose rising all
the animals (living beings) wake up (from the sleep of their ignorance), whose state at the
head (zenith) accentuates all activities (throws the brightest light on ones wisdom) and whose
setting (absence, weakness) causes all to sleep. Such Sun-God has his efficacy spread (all
over).
2-4. Varaha Mihira in his Horasastra, i.e. Brhat Jataka, stated briefly the essence of the teachings
of the learned sages viz. ten divisions of the Zodiacal Sign, Raja Yogas, longevity, effects of
planetary periods etc. This could not be done elaborately by him and hence I am conveying in
this work such useful essence, as called out from Yavanas etc., rejecting other un-useful
portions, which may be appended to the said Brihat Jataka.
5. I, Kalyana Varma, whose fame on account of patronizing Gods and administering villages and
cities is brilliant, like that of a female swan in the cage of the universe, who is the king of
Vyagrapada region, present this Saravali, an astrological treatise, with a chaste heart.
6. Saravali is a river with chilly water, which has taken its birth in the mountain called Kalyana
Varma, to ward off the thirst for astrology of those interested.
Thus ends the 1st Ch. Birth of Horasastra in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 2
Meaning of Hora
1-5. The Creator Brahma has written on the foreheads of all living beings their fates, which are
deciphered by the astrologers through their pure insight. The first and last letters in the word
Ahoratra are removed and the word Hora is thus born and has come to exist. The Zodiac and
the planets are therein, as discussed. Some scholars say Horasastra is indicative of effects of
ones Karma, i.e. fate. Some call Lagna, or half of a Rasi, as Hora. In practice the science
relating to horoscope is called Horasastra. Hora is capable of analyzing the destiny. Barring
this Horasastra there is no device to help one earn money, to help, as a boat, to cross the
ocean of unexpected situations and to serve, as an advisor in journey.

-- 6 of 203 --

7
Thus ends the 2nd Ch. Meaning of Hora in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 3
Rasi Description
1-2. At the time of Pralaya (Destruction) the Universe plunged into darkness and was flooded with
water, when all of a sudden the Sun-God with his brilliant rays appeared in the Universe. He
created all the planets and the 12 months.
3-4. Description of the 12 Rasis. The names of the 12 Rasis are Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer,
Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. The Sign Aquarius
resembles a man holding a pot, while Gemini is compared to a couple holding Veena and
mace. A pair of fish is the imagination about Pisces. Sagittarius is compared to a man having
a hip, like that of a horse and holding an arch in his hands. Deer-faced Sign is Capricorn.
Virgo resembles a virgin sitting in a boat with a lamp in her hands. A male holding Scales in
his hand represents Libra. The other Signs are identical with their names.
5-6. The Limbs of KalaPurusha and their Use. The Signs Aries etc. represent the limbs of
Kalapurusha, as under: Aries head, Taurus face, Gemini arms, Cancer heart, Leo stomach,
Virgo hip, Libra space below navel and private parts, Scorpio private parts, Sagittarius thighs,
Capricorn knees, Aquarius ankles, Pisces feet. If at birth one has benefic planet in a
particular Sign, the particular limb will be strong. A malefic makes such a limb weak.
7. Synonyms of Rasis. Kriya, Tavuru, Jutuma, Kulira, Leya, Pathona, Jook, Kaurpika, Tauksha,
Akokera, Hridaya Roga and Anthya are the other names given, respectively, to Rasis from
Aries onwards.
8. Synonyms for Houses. Riksha, Rasi, Kshetra, Bha and Bhavana are identical names given to a
House by the sages.
9-10. Zodiacal Halves, their Lords and Effects. The Rasi Chakra with 12 Rasis is called Bhagana.
Six Signs counted from Leo to Capricorn consist of Solar Half and the Sun rules this Half-
Zodiac. Six Signs in the reverse order from Cancer to Aquarius are Lunar Half and ruled by
the Moon. Barring Cancer and Leo, planets from Mars to Saturn get one Rasi each in each
Half. If at birth more planets occupy the Solar Half, the native is brilliant and, if more planets
are in Lunar Half, he is soft, good and lucky.
11. The Rulers of Rasis and Navansas. Mars, Venus, Mercury, Moon, Sun, Mercury, Venus,
Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn and Jupiter are the Lords, respectively, of Aries to Pisces. The
Navansas for these Rasis are calculated from Aries, Capricorn, Libra and Cancer in their
order.

-- 7 of 203 --

8
12. Sub-Divisions Essential. The effects of a horoscope should be predicted according to the
divisions of Houses. Without knowing the strength of such Lords, one cannot lay even a step
forward in the direction of astrology.
13. Vargothamamsa. The first Navansa of a Movable Rasi, the 5th one in a Fixed Rasi and the 9th
one in a Common (Dual) Rasi are called Vargothamamsa. Should the natal Lagna be in such
Vargothama Navansa, the native becomes an important person in his circle. The rulers of
Dwadasamasas start from that Rasi itself.
14. Lords of Decanates and Horas. The Lords of decanates are first Lord of the same Rasi,
second Lord of the 5th Rasi therefrom and third Lord of the 9th from the Rasi in question. The
first Hora of an odd Rasi belongs to the Sun, while the second one is ruled by the Moon. In
the case of an even Rasi the first Hora is ruled by the Moon and the second by the Sun.
15. Lords of Trimsamsas. In odd Signs 5, 5, 8, 7 and 5 degrees are Trimsamsas of Mars, Saturn,
Jupiter, Mercury and Venus, respectively, while the arrangement is reverse in even Signs.
16. Lords of Sapthamsas. The Sapthamsas for the 12 Rasis from Aries onwards are,
respectively, counted from Aries, Scorpio, Gemini, Capricorn, Leo, Pisces, Libra, Taurus,
Sagittarius, Cancer, Aquarius and Virgo. The Lords thereof are those, in whose Rasis they
fall.
l7. The total of the number of Horas and that of decanates is sixty (24+36) in the entire Zodiac.
The figure is increased by 72, if the total of Horas + Navansas is required, i.e.
60+72=24+108=132. Each Rasi has 1800 Kalas (30?, each of 60).
18. Different Vargas. To know any kind of Varga (Hora, Navansa, Drekkana etc.) adopt the
following method. Convert the longitude into minutes of arc and multiply by the Varga figure
concerned. Divide the product by 1800. The resultant figure will reveal the required Varga.
19. The malefic and benefic effects of such Vargas are explained in detail in the Nashta Jataka
chapters (at the end).
20-21. Rasis Benefic and Malefic, Gandanta and its Effects. From Aries onwards alternatively the
Rasis are known, as malefic and benefic on the one hand and male and female on the other
hand. These are also classified, as Chara (Movable), Sthira (Fixed, Immovable) and
DvisvaBhava (Ubhaya, Dual, Common) Rasis. The ending portions of Cancer, Scorpio and
Pisces are called Gandanta. It is said, that one born in Gandanta will not survive. He will
either lose his mother, or he will end the dynasty, i.e. he is the last of his descent and will not
have any children. If, however, he survives, he becomes a king with many elephants and
horses.
22. Directions of Rasis. The four Rasis from Aries onwards indicate East, South, West and North,
while the remaining Rasis repeat in the same way. A journey undertaken by a person towards
the direction indicated by the Lagna, or the Moon (at the commencement of journey) yields
fruitful results.

-- 8 of 203 --

9
23. DigBala and KalaBala. Human Signs, quadruped Signs, Scorpio and watery Signs are,
respectively, strong in the directions commencing from the East. Further during night-time
quadruped Signs, day-time human, or biped Signs and the second half of Capricorn, Scorpio,
Cancer and Pisces are strong at the time of daybreak and of nightfall.
24. Gemini, Cancer, Capricorn Aries, Taurus and Sagittarius are night Signs. Leo, Libra, Scorpio,
Aquarius, Pisces and Virgo are day Signs. The Signs Cancer, Capricorn, Aries, Sagittarius
and Taurus are called Prishtodaya, which rise with hind part. Sirshodaya Signs (rising with
head) are Leo, Libra, Scorpio, Virgo, Aquarius and Gemini. The Sign Pisces is Ubhayodaya
(rises with both head and hind part).
25. Strength of Rasi. If a Rasi is aspected by its Lord, or by a planet, that is friendly to its Lord, or
by Mercury, or by Jupiter, it is said to be strong. Planets other than the above do not lend
strength by aspect.
26-27. Synonyms of 12 Bhavas. Lagna Thanu and Sakthi, Second Artha and Dhana, Third
Sahaja and Parakrama, Fourth Bandhava and Griha, Fifth Putra and Pratibha, Sixth Ari and
Vrana, Seventh Stri and Kama, Eighth Vinasa and Dehavivara, Ninth Punya and Guru, Tenth
Karma and Mana, Eleventh Aya and Bhava, Twelfth Vyaya.
28-31. Additional Synonyms. The 4th (Vesma) and the 8th are called, as Caturasra Houses. The
9th is known, as Tapa, i.e. penance. The 4th has names, like? Sukha (happiness),
Jala(water), Patala (nether -world), Bandhu (relatives) and Hibuka. The other names given to
the 10th House are Karma (deed), Agna (command), Gagana (sky, zenith) and Meshurana.
The 5th and 9th are Trines. The 5th is the only House connected with Dhi, while the 9th is
Tritrikona, the Trine of Trine. The 7th House is called Dyuna, Astha (setting), Jaya and
Jamitra. The 6th is Shatkona, 3rd is Duschikya and 12th Rippha. Kutumba is the 2nd.
32. Kendra, Apoklima and Panaphara, Effects thereof. The adjoining Houses with reference to
Angles (Kendras) are Panaphara. The Houses next to Panapharas are Apoklimas. The
planets in Angles give effects in ones boyhood. The effects of planets in Panapharas are felt
in the middle age, while the planets in Apoklima give result at the conclusion of the natives
life.
33. Upachaya and Anupachaya. The 6th, 10th 11th and 3rd are called Upachaya Houses, while the
1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 12th are Anupachayas.
34. Mlatrikonas of Planets. Leo, Taurus, Aries, Virgo, Sagittarius, Libra and Aquarius are the
respective Mlatrikonas for the planets from the Sun onwards.
35-36. Exaltation and Fall. Aries, Taurus, Capricorn, Virgo, Cancer, Pisces and Libra,
respectively, are the Signs of exaltation for the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus
and Saturn. These are deeply exalted at 10, 3, 28, 15, 5, 27 and 20 Degrees in the respective
Rasis. The Rasis opposite exaltation are the places of debilitation for the planets conc erned.
And the respective degrees are of deep fall.

-- 9 of 203 --

10
37-38. Long, Medium and Short Ascensions of Signs. Pisces, Taurus, Aries and Aquarius are
Signs Of short ascension. Gemini, Sagittarius, Cancer and Capricorn are of medium
ascension. The long ascension Signs are Scorpio, Virgo, Leo and Libra. The head and other
organs of the native will be similar to the Sign ascending at birth and other relative Signs. The
planets occupying such Houses will also influence the form and shape of the various organs.
39. Favourable Directions for Journeys. The direction ruled by the Lord of a Rasi becomes Plava
direction for that Rasi. This is Yavanas school of thought. If the king undertakes his journey
towards such direction, indicated by the Rasi concerned, he attains quick success.
40-4l. Colours of Rasis. From Aries onwards the following 12 colours are allotted to the various
Rasis, respectively, red, white, green, pink, brown, gray, variegated, black, golden, yellow,
deep-brown and white. If an idol of the Lord of the Ascendant is made in the colour allotted
and is worshipped, the native will destroy his enemies, just as Lord Indra destroyed the
demons.
Thus ends the 3rd Ch. Rasi Description of Kalyana Varmas Saravali Ch. 4.
Chapter 4
Planetary Characters
1-2. Kalapurushas Soul etc. and their Use. The Sun is the soul of the Zodiac personified, the
Moon mind, Mars strength, Mercury speech (voice), Jupiter intelligence, Venus comforts,
Rahu ego and Saturn grief. If at birth planets indicative of soul etc. are strong, these
significations will equally be strong. If these planets are weak, the effects are only meagre.
But in the case of Saturn it is different.
3-6. The counting of limbs according to the decanate rising at birth should be identified, as under.
If the first decanate rises, count from head. If second, from neck and, if 3rd, from pelvis. The 6
Rasis backwards from the Ascendant denote the left side of the body, while the 6 forward
Rasis from Lagna indicate the right side of the body. Should the first decanate of a Sign
ascend, the lapsed part of the Ascendant denotes left side of the head and the part to rise yet
indicates the right side of the head, the 2nd and 12th denote right and left eyes, respectively,
3rd and 11th right and left ears, 4th and 10th right and left nose, 5th and 9th right and left cheeks,
6th and 8th right and left chins and the 7th left side of the face (area yet to rise) and the 7th right
side of the face (portion already descended). If the 2nd decanate rises, neck, shoulder, arms,
side, heart, stomach and navel are to be understood in the same order. Should the third

-- 10 of 203 --

11
decanate rise, pelvis, anus, penis, testicle, thigh, knee, calf and feet will be counted in the
same order. The decanates occupied by malefics denote wounds etc., while the ones by
benefics indicate marks (moles) on the limbs concerned. Should these planets be in their own
Rasi, or Amsa at birth, then the wound, or mole are right from birth. Otherwise these will be
caused later on (in appropriate periods).
7. Planetary Portfolios and their Use.
The Sun and the Moon are said to be the kings. Mercury is the prince, Mars Army chief, Jupiter
and Venus ministers, while Saturn is servant. The native acquires such qualities, as of the
strongest planet.
8. Planetary Directions.
The Sun, Venus, Mars, Rahu, Saturn, the Moon, Mercury and Jupiter are, respectively, the Lords
of the directions commencing from the East.
9. Planetary Nature.
Jupiter, Mercury and Venus are benefics in nature. Saturn, Mars and the Sun are natural
malefics. Mercury in the company of malefics and the waning Moon are also considered
malefics.
10-11. Synonyms of Planets.
Heli and Bhanu are the other names given to the Sun. The Moon is called Sasi. Kruradrik,
Bhomisuta, Ara, Rakta and Vakra are indicative of Mars. Hemna, Vid, Gna and Bodhana
denote Mercury. Idya, Ijya, Angira and Jiva are the Jupiters names. Asphujit, Sita and Bhrigu
means Venus. Manda, Kona, Yama and Krishna are Saturns synonyms. For these planets
there are various other names, which should be elicited from other texts.
12-13. Planetary Colours, Deities and their Use.
From the Sun onwards the respective hues of the planets are copper -red, white, blood-red,
green, yellow, variegated and black. The deities for these planets are, respectively, Fire,
Water, Kartikeya, Vishnu, Indra, Sachi Devi and Brahma. The planets from the Sun onward
should be worshipped by the Mantras concerned and, if trips to the respective directions are
undertaken one can gain gold, gems, elephants etc.
14. Sex, Caste and Elements.
The Moon and Venus are females. Mercury and Saturn rule neutrals. Males are Jupiter, the Sun
and Mars. Brahmins are ruled by Jupiter and Venus. The Sun and Mars preside over the
royal lot. The Moon rules Vaisyas. Saturn rules those of mixed breed, while Mercury presides
over Sudras. The five primordial compounds, viz. Fire, Earth, Ether, Water and Air are,
respectively, ruled by planets from Mars onwards.
15. Planetary Tastes and Abodes.

-- 11 of 203 --

12
The planets from the Sun on are attributed tastes, as acrid, saline, bitter, mixed, sweet, sour
(acidulous) and astringent. Their abodes, respectively, are temples, water resorts, fire
houses, sports ground, treasury, bed-room and dirty places.
16. Planetary Robes and Substances.
From the Sun onwards the apparels attributed are coarse, new, burnt, water-soaked, neither new
nor old i.e. recent, durable and a rag. Similarly copper, gem (?), gold (?), metal alloy, silver
(?), pearl (?) and iron are in their order denoted by the Sun etc., ending with Saturn.
17. Periods and Ritus of Planets.
Ayana, Muhurta, Ahoratna, Ritu (season), month, fortnight and year are, respectively, ruled by the
planets from the Sun to Saturn. The seasons, viz. Sisira, Vasanta, Grishma, Varsha, Sarat
and Hemanta are, respectively, ruled by Saturn, Venus, Mars, Moon, Mercury and Jupiter.
18. Use of these. In the matter of winning enemies, delivery of child, or such questions
materialization of the objective concerned will be, as per the period allotted to the Lagna
Lord. This should be understood according to the Ascendant passed.
19-20. Lords of Vedas and Worlds. Jupiter rules Rig Veda, Venus Yajur Veda, Mars Sama Veda
and Mercury Atharva Veda. Jupiter denotes the Heavens, the Moon and Venus the world of
the Manes, the Sun and Mars the World of mortals and Mercury and Saturn Hell.
21. Description and Nature of the Sun. The Sun has curly hair, sharp mind, prominent
appearance, majestic voice and is not very tall. His eyes are honey-coloured. He is
courageous, steady and of a complexion, which has a mix of red and green. His feet are not
conspicuous (small in size). He is bilious and has sturdy bones. He is great and majestic. He
has fiery rays and square body and wears saffron-coloured apparels.
22. Description and Nature of the Moon.
She has an auspicious appearance. Her eyes are beautiful. She has mellifluous voice. She is fair
in complexion, has an emaciated body, is youthful, tall, curly and short hair, is learned, soft,
of Sattvik disposition, beautiful, phlegmatic, amicable to friends, has pure (excellent) bl ood, is
kind, fond of old ladies, fickle-minded, very fortunate and wears clean apparels.
23. Description and Nature of Mars.
The planet Mars is short, his eyes are reddish-brown in colour. He has a strong body. He is as
bright, as burning fire. He is not steady in disposition. He has marrow in bones and flesh. He
wears red-coloured apparels. He is more intelligent and is courageous. He is an
accomplished speaker. He causes injury. He has short and shining hair. He is bilious in
disposition and is Tamasic. He is adventurous and wrathful and is skilful in hurting. He is
blood-red in appearance.
24. Description and Nature of Mercury.

-- 12 of 203 --

13
Mercurys eyes are reddish and broad. He speaks sweetly. His complexion is of green grass. He
has strong skin. He is an extremely Rajasic planet. He is clear in his speech and is pure. He
has a mixture of the three humours, i.e. phlegm, bile and wind. He remains delighted and has
moderate beauty. He is skilful and sinewy. He is agreeable to all in dressing and speech and
wears green robes.
25. Description and Nature of Jupiter.
The eyes of Jupiter are somewhat reddish-brown. He is learned in Vedas. His voice resembles
that of a lion. He is firm and prominently Sattvik. His physical complexion is akin to pure
yellow metal. He has broad and prominent chest. He is always fond of virtues and is modest.
He has firm and large eyes and is of forgiving disposition. He wears yellow apparels, is
phlegmatic, fat and pre-eminent.
26. Description and Nature of Venus.
The planet Venus is beautiful, has long hands, broad chest and face, is very seminal,
splendourous, has dark, short and extended hair, is of complexion, which is a mix of yellow
and green, is sensuous, windy and phlegmatic, very fortunate, wears multi-coloured apparels,
is of Rajasic disposition, sportive, intelligent, broad-eyed and has prominent shoulders.
27. Description and Nature of Saturn.
Saturn has red and depressed eyes, emaciated body, prominent veins, is indolent, black-bodied
and windy in temperament. He is a talebearer. He is muscular, unkind, foolish, has large nails
and teeth, is very dirty, impure, Tamasic in disposition, fierce, short-tempered and old (worn
out). He adores black apparels.
28-29. Natural Friendship, Neutrality and Enmity between Planets. The Suns friends are Jupiter,
Mars and the Moon. The Moons friends are the Sun and Mercury. The Sun, the Moon and
Jupiter are friendly to Mars. Venus and the Sun are Mercurys friends. The Sun, Moon and
Mars are friendly disposed to Jupiter. Saturn and Mercury are friends of Venus. Mercury and
Venus are Saturns friends. The Suns enemies are Venus and Saturn. The Moon has no
enemies. Mercury is inimical to Mars, while the Moon is Mercurys enemy. Venus and Mercury
are the enemies of Jupiter. The Moon and the Sun are enemies of Venus. Saturns enemies
are the Sun, the Moon and Mars. If a planet is neither a friend, nor an enemy of another one,
there exists neutrality among them.
30. Temporary Friendship and Enmity between Planets. I
If a planet is in the 12th, 4th, 2nd, 10th, 11th and 3rd from another planet, then there is temporary
friendship between the two. If the position is in the 6th, 7th, 8th, 1st, 5th, or the 9th, then there is
temporary enmity among them. (This may be applied to a birth horoscope, horary horoscope,
or any such other context)
31. Five Kinds of Considerations of Relationship.

-- 13 of 203 --

14
Should there be temporary friendship and natural friendship between two planets, then they
become extremely friendly. If there is natural neutrality and temporary friendship, there exists
only friendship between two planets. If there is natural enmity and temporary friendship, they
are neutral in relationship. Should they be naturally neutral and temporarily inimical, they are
only inimical. If there is enmity both naturally and temporarily, then they are greatly inimical to
each other.
32-33. Planetary Aspects. Planets lend ? aspect on the 3rd and 10th, half aspect on the 4th and 8th,
? aspect on 5th and 9th and full aspect on the 7th from their positions. Saturn has special full
aspect on the 3rd and 10th, Jupiter on the 5th and the 9th and Mars on the 4th and 8th. All
planets aspect the 7th fully.
34. Planetary Strengths. To assess the auspicious and inauspicious effects of a planet, its
directional, positional, temporal and motional strengths are important, for without these it is
considered to be weak.
35. Directional and Positional Strengths.
Jupiter and Mercury have directional strength, while in the Ascendant (East), the Sun and Mars in
the 10th (South), Saturn in the 7th (West) and the Moon and Venus in the 4th (North). If a
planet is in exaltation, Mlatrikona, own House, friendly House, or own Navansa and aspected
by a benefic, it assumes strength. The Moon and Venus are strong in even Rasis, while the
rest are so in odd Rasis. This is called positional strength.
36. Temporal and Motional Strengths.
The Sun, Jupiter and Venus acquire strength during day-time, while Saturn, theMoon and Mars
become strong during night -time. Mercury acquires vigour at all times. The Hora Bala goes to
Hora Lord, Masa Bala (Masa - month) to the Lord of the month, Dina Bala to the Lord of the
week-day of birth and Abda (year) Bala is credited to the Lord of the year of birth. Malefics
get strength in Dark Half, while benefics become strong in Bright Half. The planet, that is
victorious in war, that is in its retrograde motion, or, that is not combust become strong. The
Luminaries get strength in northern course. This is how Satyacharya detailed motional
strength.
37. Ayana Bala. Venus, Mars, the Sun and Jupiter are strong in Uttarayana, while the Moon and
Saturn are strong in Dakshinayana. Mercury is strong in both the cases. This is called Ayana
Bala.
38. Drekkana Bala. Male planets are strong in the first decanate, female planets in the third
decanate and neutral planets in the second decanate of a Rasi. Planets are strong, only
when they are away from the Sun, as per Yavanas.
39. Tribhaga Bala, or Triamsa Bala. The Moon, Venus and Mars get this strength in the first,
second and third parts of the night, respectively. This is similarly enjoyed by Mercury, the Sun
and Saturn in day-time, while Jupiter has it always, irrespective of day, or night.

-- 14 of 203 --

15
40. Naisargika Bala (Natural Strength). Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Moon and Sun are
stronger than the other in the ascending order. Should there be similarity in other strengths,
then the one with greater natural strength prevails.
Thus ends the 4th Ch. Planetary Characters of Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 5
Miscellaneous Matters
1. After discussing the Ch. Rasi Prabheda (Ch. 3) and Graha Yoni Bheda, or Graha Gunadhyaya
(Ch. 4) I now explain Misrakadhyaya (Miscellaneous Ch.), which is the most supreme of all.
2-4. Avasthas, or States of Planets. Planets have nine states of being, viz. Dipta (radiant),
Svastha (confident), Mudita (rejoiced), Santa (peaceful), Sakta (strong), Nipidita (oppressed),
Bhita (alarmed), Vikala (mutilated) and Khala. A planet in its exaltation is said to be in
Diptavastha. In its own House, it is in Svasthavastha, friendly House Muditavastha, in
beneficial Vargas Santavastha, with bright rays Saktavastha, in combustion Vikalavastha, if
defeated in planetary war, Nipidita, in malefic Vargas Khalavastha and, if in fall, in
Bhitavastha.
Notes. There are 27 Graha Samayas, i.e. planetary conditions. These will help us know, as to
what a planet is doing at a particular moment with reference to either birth, or query. Such
positions reveal specific results. How to calculate these positions and the effects thereof are
noted below. Find out the number of Signs from Aries to Ascendant. Again find out in what
number of Sign is the planet, for which (Samaya) is required, counted from Aries. Multiply
these figures mutually and again the latest product be multiplied by the total number of Dasa
period years of the planet, as per Vimsottari Dasha scheme. Divide this by 27 and the
remainder indicates Graha Samaya (some scholars, however, advise, that the planets
position is to be counted from Lagna instead of Aries. It is wrong counting the planets position
from Lagna, as the Sloka clearly says, vide Jyotisharnava Navanitam). Let us assume, that in
Virgo Lagna chart the Moon is in Sagittarius. Hence we count six Signs from Aries through
Virgo Ascendant and get 6. Again from Aries to Sagittarius we get 9. Multiply 9 by 6 to get 54.
The Dasha period of the Moon is 10. When we multiply 54 by 10, we get 540. This, when
divided by 27, yields no balance and hence the 27th Samaya is denoted.
Now the scheme of Samayas and their effects (1-27). Snana: good family, children, respect,
success and position. Vastradharana: precious stones, money, position and clothes.
Pundradharana: dear to people, gains in foreign countries, hard work and honour. Upadesa:

-- 15 of 203 --

16
lands, conveyances and happiness. Siva Puja: fond of lands, royal wrath, expenses and
litigations. Aposana: wealth, fond of wicked people. Vishnvarchana: bile, grief, highly learned.
Vipraradhana: fortune, gains from lands, success over enemies, rich relatives. Namaskara:
soft-spoken, conveyances and capability to speak on either side in arguments. Adri
Pradakshina: bilious diseases, dysentery, litigations and penalties. Vaisyadeva: position with
king, good family, perennial progress. Athithi Satkara: cheat, jimminks and monetary gains.
Bhojana: sick, dismissed from the circle, cheating. Ambhapana: bad meal, bad acts.
Ahamkara: egoism and enmity with people. Tambula: good position, high learning, money
and fame of high order. Nripalapa: respect, pious disposition, diviee cows. Kiritadharana: big
position in Army, learned, wealthy. Ekanta Sambhashana: lazy, soft-spoken. Alasya:
abundant education, lazy, careless. Sayana: very short-tempered, sick, disputes in family.
Amritapana: foolish, harmful, blaming elders, destruction (some texts prescribe good results,
which only seem to be sensible). Madhupana: health, good children, beautiful wife, rich food.
Dhanarjana: respect, much wealth, skilful. Bhikshatana: loss, bad teaching. Nidra: long-
lasting diseases, drunkard. Sambhoga: attached to base women, cunning and revengeful.
5. Effects of a Radiant Planet.
Should a planet be in Dipta state at birth, the native burns his enemies with the fire of his valour.
He gathers all kinds of wealth. His (band of) elephants soak the surface of the earth with the
juice, or ichor exuding from their temples. (That is the native will own a large number of
elephants. See the simultaneous literary ability of Kalyana Varma. A number of such
comparisons can be found in this work)
6. Effects of a Confident Planet.
Should a planet be in Svastha state at birth, the native acquires gold, family etc. He will be a
justice in a kings employ. He will own houses and will amass grains. His family will prosper.
7. Effects of a Rejoicing Planet.
If a planet is in Mudita state at birth, the native will be pleasingly disposed, will have wife, gold,
diamonds etc., will win the entire band of his foes and will enjoy all kinds of comforts in life.
8. Effects of a Peaceful Planet.
If a planet is in Santa, or peaceful state at birth, the native will have peaceful mind, comfort and
wealth. He will be a kings minister, will be learned, helpful to others, religious and fortunate.
9. Effects of a Sakta Planet.
If a planet is in Sakta state at birth, the native will have wife, clothes, scents, garlands etc. He will
be famous, liked by all and have his name spread all-over.
10. Effects of a Hurt Planet.
If a planet is in Pidita (hurt, oppressed) state at birth, the native will be subjected to grief and
sickness and will have enemies. He will be deprived of his own people and wander from one
country to the other. 11. Effects of an Alarmed Planet. Should a planet be in Bhita state at

-- 16 of 203 --

17
birth, the native, even, if he were a king with varied paraphernalia, will be troubled by
enemies. He will lose his men. He will be defeated and will become poor.
12. Effects of a Mutilated Planet.
If a planet is in Vikala state at birth, the native will be deprived of his place, or position, dirty-
hearted, poor and will wander here and there. He will be frightened by his enemies.
13. Effects of a Planet in Khalavastha.
Should a planet be in Khalavastha, the native will grieve in sorrow, due to maintaining his wife
(the native cannot maintain even his wife), will lose all his wealth, will have an impure mind
and be never free from miseries.
14. Retrogression in Exaltation.
If a planet is retrograde, while in exaltation, it produces no effect (nothing good will happen). This
is the view held by some. Even, if it is in exaltation by its entry in retrograde motion from the
next Sign (for example Jupiter entering Cancer from Leo), the effect is same, for it takes
unduly long time in such trajectory.
15. Different Effects.
A planet in exaltation is considered highly strong. It is medium in strength in its Mlatrikona Rasi,
or own House. Its strength is only nominal, if it be aspected by a friendly planet, or be in a
friendly Rasi.
16-17. The elders among Yavanas say,that the Moon is of medium strength for ten days
commencing from Sukla Padyami, i.e. first of Bright Lunar Half. During the following ten days
(from the 11th day, or Ekadasi of Bright Lunar Half through the 5th day, or Panchami of Dark
Lunar Half, or Krishna Paksha) she is exceedingly strong. And during the third ten-day period
(from the 6th day, or Shashti of Dark Lunar Half through the New Moon day, or Amavasya)
she has very little strength. If at birth the Moon has brilliant rays, is bright circled and full, it
makes the native an un-encounterable king.
18. Good Results in Mid-Life.
If at birth the Lord of Moon Sign, or the Lord of the Ascendant, or Jupiter be in Kendra, the native
is happy in the middle of his life.
19-20. The effects revealed by various Rasis will correspond to the strengths of their Lords.
Should two planets have identical strength, the one with higher Naisarga Bala will prevail.
According to Chudamani Acharya the Ascendants strength equals that of its Lord.
21-24. Swakshetra, Mlatrikona etc.
In Leo up to 20?, it is the Suns and the rest is his own House. The Moons exaltation zone is the
first 3? of Taurus, with the remaining portion being her Mlatrikona. Up to 12? in Aries Mars is
in Mlatrikona, the rest is his own House. Mercury in Virgo has the first 15?, as exaltation, the
next 5 (15?1-20?), as Mlatrikona and the remaining portion is termed, as own House. In
Sagittarius first 10? is Jupiters Mlatrikona, with the rest being own House. The first 5? in Libra

-- 17 of 203 --

18
is Mlatrikona of Venus and the balance his own House. Aquarius is Mlatrikona for Saturn in
the initial 20? portion and the last 10? in Aquarius is his own House.
25. Effects of Exalted Planets etc.
If a planet is exalted, it gives auspicious results to full extent. It is futile, if in debilitation. The
results are limited in an enemys camp. The auspicious effects given by a planet are ? in a
friendly House, ? in own House and ? in Mlatrikona Rasi.
26. Inauspiciousness of Planets.
A planet is fully inauspicious, if it is in its debilitation; it is somewhat better in inimical House. Its
inauspicious effects are nil, if it is exalted, ? in friendly House, ? in own House and ? in
Mlatrikona Rasi.
27. The planetary combination,
that produces Utpata, the planet, that is combust by the Sun, with less brilliance, which is in
debilitation, in enemys camp, or, that is defeated in planetary war: such a planet not only
loses its potency to be auspicious, but also becomes capable of bestowing malefic effects in
full.
28-30. Effects According to Exaltation etc.
A planet in exaltation gives all kinds of wealth. It confers ministerial-ship, or leadership over Army,
if in Mlatrikona Rasi. If it is in own House, it gives happiness, money, grains, wealth etc. In a
friendly House, it gives fame, splendour, abundant good fortune, long-lasting wealth and also
wealth through king. A planet, that is in its own Hora, makes one courageous.
31-33. A planet in its own decanate confers virtues, while the one in own Navansa makes one
famous. Courage, wealth and fame are bestowed by a planet occupying its own Sapthamsa.
One becomes devout and helpful, if a planet is in its own Dvadasamsa. A planet in own
Trimsamsa gives happiness and good qualities. When a planet is aspected by a benefic
planet, the native becomes wealthy, famous, fortunate, chief of all, beautiful and happy.
34-35. If a planet is with Ojha, or Yugma Bala
(strength by being in male, or female Rasis), the native is worshipped by the public, expert in arts,
pleased, immune to sickness and prone to fear of other Worlds. A planet with positional
strength gives perennial happiness, friendship, courage, fixity of mind and independent
profession, or work.
36-38. A planet with directional strength takes the native to the direction ruled by it and gives
clothes, jewels, conveyances etc. And the native is happy in such a direction. A planet with
Ayana Bala similarly takes the native to its direction and confers various kinds of wealth apart
from fame. In both the cases, the planets should not be combust, or debilitated. If a planet
has Cheshta Bala, it sometimes gives kingdom, sometimes respect, sometimes money and
yet sometimes increases the fame of the native.
39. Effects of Retrograde Planets.

-- 18 of 203 --

19
A benefic, if retrograde, is strong and is capable of conferring kingdom. If a malefic is retrograde,
it causes grief and purposeless wandering.
40. Auspicious Planets.
A planet with clear rays, or, that is conjunct with the Moon, or, that has won in a planetary war, is
capable of bestowing complete happiness and kingdom, that cannot be seized.
41. Diva Bala and Ratri Bala.
A planet, that has Diva Bala, or Ratri Bala, is capable of conferring lands, elephants etc. Such a
native defeats his enemies with courage and achieves kingdom and wealth.
42. Effects of Lord of Year etc.
The Lords of the year, month, week and Hora improve two-fold in their Dasas happiness, wealth
and fame. That is the Lord of the month gives two-fold results, as against year Lord, the week
Lord two-fold of month Lord and the Hora Lord two-fold of week Lord.
43. Effects of Paksha Bala.
A planet with Paksha Bala destroys enemies and confers diamonds, robes, conveyances, wife,
gold, land and fame.
44. Effects of a Planet with all Sources of Strengths.
Should a planet have all kinds of strengths stated so far and be bright with unobscured rays, it
confers kingdom exceeding the desires of the native.
45. Benefic Planets with all-round Strength.
If at birth benefic planets possess all-round strength, the native will have good habits, be truthful,
upright, beautiful, splendourous and be an expert in all deeds, respectful towards the wise
and Gods and will be blessed with scents, garlands, robes, ornaments etc.
46. Malefics with all-round Strength.
Should malefics be with such all-round strength at birth, the native will be a miser, will do bad
acts, be selfish, jealous of virtuous people, intent on promoting quarrels, wicked, torturous,
dirty, ungrateful, slanderous and ugly.
47-50. Planetary Stages and Effects thereof.
It is boyhood, if a planet is in its own House, or friendly House. In Mlatrikona Rasi, it is in youth
and in adolescence in exaltation. It is said to be in old stage, if it occupies an inimical House.
A planet in debilitation is in extremis. The corresponding effects are felt in the respective
planetary Dashas, i.e. periods. The results for such stages are, respectively, happiness,
virtue, kingdom, sickness with debts and death, or expenses.
51-52. Effects of Planets in Odd and Even Rasis.
A planet in odd Rasi with strength makes the native courageous and a warrior. If it is weak in odd
Rasi, the native is cruel and dull-witted. A planet in even Rasi gives soft nature, fear for
quarrels, love for water, flowers and clothes, good fortune, health and protection of own men.

-- 19 of 203 --

20
Thus ends the 5th Ch. Miscellaneous Matters in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 6
(Yoga) Karakas
1. Karaka Planets. Planets posited in own House, Mlatrikona, or exaltation and simultaneously in
Angles become mutual Karakas, or significators. Such kind of Yoga Karakas (co-workers) are
counted only in regard to Lagnas Angles. This view is held by Acharya Hari.
2. For example Saturn in Libra, while Cancer Ascendant containing Jupiter and the Moon and
Mars with the Sun in Aries become mutual Karakas.
3. Planets posited in exaltation, friendly Rasi, own Rasi, or Amsa also become Karakas. The Sun
in the 10th, as above, becomes greatly significant. This is Chanakyas opinion.
4. Planets though not in Vargas, like own House, become Karakas, if they are in Lagna, 4th, 10th,
or even the 11th. But this view is not acceptable to great sages.
5-6. Effects of Karakas. Even though a person may be born in base strata, he will become chief,
if he has Karaka Grahas. One born in royal family without doubt becomes a king in such a
case. While analyzing the Yogas, such Karakatwas are along important and effects should be
declared only on that basis.
Thus ends the 6th Ch. entitled Karakadhyaya in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 7
Planetary Indications
1. Lord of Week-Day etc. The Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn rule the
week-days etc. Whichever planet becomes the Lord of the first week-day in the month of
Aswina in the year of Aswina, will become the Lord of month and year.
2-3. The fourth planet counted from the Lord of the first year rules the second year. Similar
counting of fourth Lords for the subsequent years should be made to know the Lords thereof.
There are 24 Horas (planetary hours) in each day (from one Sun-rise to the next). The first
Hora is ruled by the Lord of the week day, while the subsequent ones are ruled by the Lords
of the sixth week-days thereof. Thirty (Savana) days make one (Savana) month. To know the
Lord of the week-day in particular month, the months past should be multiplied by 30,
increased by one and divided by 7. The remainder represents the Lord of the week-day
counted from the earlier week-day Lord.

-- 20 of 203 --

21
4. A Savana month has 30 days and each month, viz. Chaitra, Visakha etc., commences with the
first day of Bright half and ends with the 30th Tithi (Amavasya).
5-6. Bhava Effects. The good effects relating to a Bhava can be better reaped, if an enterprise
relating to that Bhava is started in an Ascendant ruled by the Lord of that Bhava, or, when the
Lord thereof is in an Upachaya House, or on the week-day, Hora, year, or month ruled by that
Bhava Lord. The good effects will be 25% by year Lord, 50% by month Lord, 75% by Lord of
week and 100% by Hora Lord.
7-13. Planets Rulerships. The Sun rules snakes, wool, hills, gold, weapons, poison, fire,
medicines, kings, Aryas (foreigners in general), river banks, forest, wood and Mantras. The
Moon indicates poets, flowers, eatables, beads, silver, conch, salt, water, arrow, robes,
ornaments, females, Ghi, sesamum, oil and sleep. Mars rules blood, copper, Army, red cloth.
Mercury minerals, earth, king, destruction, swooning, bile and thieves. Mercury rules Veda,
writing, sculpture, medicines, expertise, ministership, speech, jokes, birds, couples, fame,
Vanaspathi (a large forest tree, which bears fruit apparently without any blossoms) and gold.
Jupiter rules auspiciousness, virtue, physical stoutness, prowess, preceptorship, deputation,
city, state (province), gold, bed, conveyance, position, grains, residence and sons. Venus
rules diamonds, ornaments, marriage, scents, friends, wreaths, females, cow dung, diagnosis
(apart from meaning diagnosis also indicates end, purity, rope to tying up a calf etc.),
education, sexual enjoyment and gold. Saturn is Karaka for lead, zinc, black metals, inferior
grains, dead relatives, fools, servants, mean women, saleable goods, poor people and self-
restraint (apart from meaning self-restraint also means investing with sacred thread, which is
in vogue to give second birth to Brahmins).
14-15. Planetary Places. The Sun rules Kalinga (a Coromandel district), the Moon Yavana
(Greek, Mohamedan, or European countries), Venus plain river banks, Jupiter Sindhu
(Indus), Mercury Magadha (southern part of Bihar), Saturn Saurashtra (Gujarat), Mars Ujjain
and the nodes Dravida country (five tribes: Dravida, Karnataka, Gurjara, Maharashtra and
Tailanga).
Thus ends the 7th Ch. entitled Karakadhyaya in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 21 of 203 --

22
Chapter 8
Conception
1-3. A Female Menstruation.
Without the knowledge of conception time one cannot understand the effects of the various
divisions, like Rasi. That is why I explain below about conception, which is the cause of births
of all animals. As a result of Moons transit in Anupachaya Rasis and in aspect of Mars, a
female obtains her menses. The Moon is water and Mars is fire. Water produces blood and
fire produces bile. When blood is enraged by bile, the women gets her menstruation.
4-7. The menstruation so caused makes the female capable of conception. If the Moon is in
Upachaya, it makes the menses defunct for conception. However, if the Moon in Upachaya is
aspected by Jupiter, or her friends, or especially Venus, the woman affectionately cohabits
with the male. If the Moon is aspected by Mars, the female unites with a person other than
husband. The Sun, if aspecting the Moon, indicates a king, while Saturn aspecting denotes a
servant. Similar inferences should be made, if the Moon is aspected by malefics only, without
aspect of benefics. If the Moon is aspected by malefics, like Mars, then the female gives up
her home and becomes a prostitute.
8-10. The 7th House from Lagna at the time of copulation indicates the disposition of the couple. If
there is a malefics aspect to the Lagna at the time of copulation, the couple unites angrily and
with quarrel. Should it be benefics aspect, then the sexual enjoyment will be (pleasing), as
enumerated by Vatasyayana Maharsi. If there be both malefic and benefic aspects on the 7th,
the sexual act is mixed in nature. According to ones past deeds, to ripen its fruits the semen
enters the womb and conception ensues.
11-12. Occurrence of Pregnancy.
If the transit Sun and Venus be in Upachaya Rasis with strength with reference to the male
partners nativity and occupy even Navamsas, there is scope of pregnancy to be caused by
the particular intercourse. Similar effects follow, if strong Moon and strong Mars be in
Upachaya Rasis in transit with reference to the females horoscope and be in even
Navamsas. Alternatively Venus, Sun, Mars and Moon should be in Upachaya Houses in own
Amsas, or Jupiter be in Lagna, 5th, or 9th with strength to cause pregnancy.
13. Disposition of Foetus. The child in the womb will be according to the mental disposition of the
couple and their desires and according to Tridoshas (bile, phlegm and wind) prevailing.
14-15. Sex of the Child. Should Lagna, Moon, Jupiter and the Sun be strong and be in male
Rasis and male Navamsas, birth of a male child be predicted. If they are in even Rasis and

-- 22 of 203 --

23
even Amsas, predict female child. If strong Jupiter and Sun be in male Rasis, male child will
be born. Female child should be expected, if Venus, Moon and Mars are in even Rasis.
16. Twin Birth. If the Sun and Jupiter be in Gemini, or Sagittarius in aspect to Mercury, birth of
two male children be predicted. Two female children will be born, if Venus, Mars and the
Moon be in Pisces, or Virgo in aspect (of) Mercury.
17. Male Birth. If Saturn is in odd House other than Lagna, a male child will be born. Such Yogas
and strengths at the time of Adhana should be properly assessed to predict birth of male, or
female child.
18-20. Birth of Hermaphrodite.
Birth of a hermaphrodite should be declared, if the Sun and the Moon be in odd Rasis and be in
mutual aspect, or, if Mercury and Saturn be in mutual aspect from odd Rasis, or, if Mars
aspects the Sun, who is in an even Rasi, or, if the Moon is in Lagna in odd Rasi. These are
the views of sages. If Mars aspects Mercury in odd Rasi and simultaneously the Moon in
even Rasi, same effect follows. Alternatively if Lagna, Moon and Mercury be in odd Rasi and
odd Navansa and aspected by Venus and Saturn, eunuch birth is indicated.
21-22. One Male Child and One Female Child to be Born. Should Lagna and Moon be in even
Rasis and be aspected by a strong planet, then there are twins in the womb (one male child
and one female child). Similar results follow, if the Moon and Venus are in even Rasis, or
Common Signs and be strong.
23-26. Birth of Triplets.
The following Yogas prevailing at the time of Adhana lead to births of triplets. Mercury remaining
in Gemini Navansa aspecting a planet, who also falls in Common Navansa (a), Mercury
remaining in Gemini Navansa aspecting a Sign, which ascends (b), Mercury in Virgo
Navansa aspecting a planet falling in Common Navansa (c), Mercury in Virgo Navansa
aspecting a Common Sign, which ascends (d), Mercury in Gemini Amsa aspecting a planet in
Gemini Amsa, or Sagittarius Amsa (e), Mercury in Gemini Navansa aspecting the Lagna,
which falls in Gemini Navansa, or Sagittarius Navansa (f), Mercury in 7th aspecting a planet in
Kanya, or Meena Navansa, or aspecting such Lagna Navansa (g). Combinations (a) and (b)
lead to birth of triplets - one female and two males. Combinations (c) and (d) cause birth of
triplets consisting of two females and one male. Combinations at (e) and (f) cause three male
children, while the ones at (g) indicate three female children.
27. Mother, Father, etc.
If births take place in day-time, Venus indicates mother, while the Sun indicates father. In the
case of nights the Moon and Saturn, respectively, play these roles. Similarly the Moon
denotes mothers sister and Sat urn paternal uncle for day-time births, while Venus and the
Sun take over these portfolios, respectively, in the case of night births.

-- 23 of 203 --

24
28. Effects of such Planets. If the planets denoting father and paternal uncle are in odd Bhavas,
their well-being is assured. If the planets denoting mother and maternal aunt are in even
Bhavas, their well-being is to be predicted.
29-31. Process of Growth of Embryo and Lords thereof.
The embryo in the womb improves, as under. First month coagulated blood, second mass of
flesh, third limbs, fourth bones, fifth skin, sixth hair, seventh movement, eighth feeling of
hunger and thirst, ninth excitement and tenth ripens, like a fruit and ready for coming out of
the womb. These ten months are ruled, respectively, by Venus, Mars, Jupiter, the Sun, the
Moon, Saturn, Mercury, Lord of Nisheka Lagna, the Moon and the Sun. The dispositions of
these Lords indicate good, or bad of the respective processes.
32-33. Miscarriage. Should a planet be affected by celestial portents, or defeat by malefic at the
time of intercourse, miscarriage may take place in the month ruled by the planet concerned.
The Ascendant ruling at the time of intercourse can also become cause of miscarriage. If
Saturn and Mars be in the said Ascendant, or the Moon be in a House of Mars, or Saturn, the
results mentioned will come to pass.
34. Comfortable Carrying. Should the Adhana Ascendant be occupied by Moon, or should there
be benefics in the 5th, 9th, 7th, 2nd, 10th, 4th and malefics relegated to 3rd and 11th aspected by
the Sun, the carrying female is safe.
35-41. Adversities to the Pregnant Woman.
If at the time of Adhana the Sun and the Moon are hemmed between two malefics, while the
Ascendant has no benefic aspect, the female concerned dies. The same effect prevails, if the
said Ascendant and the 7th are occupied by malefics and be without benefic aspect, or, if the
said Ascendant is occupied by Saturn and weak Moon aspected by Mars. Again similar
effects shall come to pass, if weak Moon and the Sun are in 12th, Mar s in 4th, while Venus is
between two malefics. Both the child in the womb and its mother leave this world, if malefics
occupy the 4th from the said Ascendant, or from the Moon, while Mars is in the 7th, or Lagna.
The same result follows, if Mars is in 4th, Sun in 12th and the Moon be decreasing and be with
malefic aspect. If the Sun is in Lagna, while the Moon is weak, or, if Mars is in Lagna, while
malefics are in 12th and 2nd without benefics aspect, death occurs of the mother along with
child. The Sun in the 7th at Adhana, while Mars is in Lagna, takes away the child along with its
mother through instruments.
42-43. Progress of Pregnancy.
Should there be aspects from Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, or the Sun to the Lagna, the process of
pregnancy goes on well. The embryo develops according to the state of the Lords of various
months (in transit). In the third month the pregnant woman develops tastes to eat various
things according to the disposition of the various monthly Lords and Lagna Lord and the
Yogas caused to them.

-- 24 of 203 --

25
44-45. Time of Delivery.
If at the time of Nisheka (i.e. Adhana) the Sun is in a Movable Sign, delivery takes place in the
10th month, if he is in a Fixed Sign, delivery in 11th month is indicated and in a Dual Sign it is
in 12th month. If a Movable Rasi ascends at Adhana, delivery takes place in 10th month, a
Fixed 11th and Dual 12th.
46-47. The matter of delivery can be guessed through the Vargas of Nisheka Lagna. The natal
Moon can be in the 10th from Adhana Moon. This view is held by many Acharyas. According
to Badarayana the natal Ascendant will be in the 7th from Adhana Lagna and natal Moon will
be in the 7th from Adhana Moon. Since there are several views on this, I explain below a view,
which is acceptable to all.
48. View Acceptable to all about Natal Moon.
Note the Dwadasamsa of the Moon at the time of Adhana. When Moon is so many Signs away
from her Adhana position (in a month, when delivery is normally possible), delivery will take
place.
49. Should a Navansa of Saturn rule the Nisheka Lagna and Saturn be in the 7th, the delivery
takes place after three years. If Cancer be the Navansa Lagna with the Moon in the 7th (from
Rasi Lagna), delivery occurs after twelve years.
50. Fraction of Day, or Night for Delivery. According to Nisheka Lagna being a day Sign, or night
Sign, delivery will be after so much of fraction of night, or day having passed.
51-52. Thus should be understood the possible time of birth in day, or night and the Lagna at
birth. In similar manner the difference between sunrise and birth, i.e. natal Ascendant and
(week)day, fortnight, Muhurta month etc. should be guessed. Such details relating to birth
should first be ascertained and then predictions should be issued with reference to nativity by
astrologers.
53-55. Yogas for Eye Defects. If at the time of Adhana (or at birth) the Sun and Moon are in Leo
identical with Lagna, the child born will be blind. There should be aspect of Mars and Saturn
on Leo. A bubble on the eye should be predicted, if Mars and Mercury aspect the said Sun
and Moon in Leo Lagna. I shall further explain Yogas affecting the eyes. Should the 12th be
occupied by waning Moon, left eye is destroyed and, if by the Sun, it is the right eye. If,
however, benefics aspect (the said 12th and the Sun/Moon), then by (suitable) efforts the eye
can be repaired.
56. If malefics are in Rasi Sandhi and the Moon is in Taurus aspected by Mars, Saturn and the
Sun, the native born will be dumb. If, however, there is benefics aspect, the person speaks
later on.
57. If malefic planets are in Rasi Sandhis, while there is no benefic aspect on the Moon, the
native born is dull-witted. Should Saturn and Mars be in a Navansa of Mercury, the birth is
with teeth.

-- 25 of 203 --

26
58. Should Mercury be in 5th, or 9th from the Ascendant, while all other planets are devoid of
strength, the child has 2 faces, 4 hands and 4 legs.
59. If the last portion of Capricorn rises with aspect from Saturn and the Luminaries, the native is
short-statured. The same effect prevails, if the Moon is in Cancer identical with Ascendant
and aspected by Mars and Saturn.
60. If Pisces rises at birth with aspect from Mars, Saturn and the Moon, the child born is lame. If
there is a benefics aspect to the said combination, then relief can be expected after making
efforts.
61. Should Mars be in the Ascendant and fall in the ascendant decanate, or a trinal decanate,
receiving the aspect of malefics, while benefics are devoid of strength, the child in the womb
develops no head, no legs and no hands, respectively.
62. Whatever is stated in this Ch., should be suitably applied to natal Ascendant, if applicable.
And the rules stated elsewhere in regard to nativity may be used with reference to Adhana
also, if need be.
Thus ends the 8th Ch. entitled Adhanadhyaya in Saravali of Kalyana Varma.
Chapter 9
Conditions at Birth
1. To know the time of delivery I have explained the Adhana Ch. Now I explain the natal Ch., as
below.
2. If natal Lagna is in Sirshodaya Rasi, birth is with head foremost and a Prishtodaya Rasi at birth
indicates birth with legs foremost. The birth is with hands in such a position, if an
Ubhayodaya Rasi ascends. Should Lagna enjoy benefic aspect, delivery would have been
comfortable, otherwise difficult.
3-4. The place of delivery will correspond to the Rasi Lagna, or Navansa Lagna at birth. If it is a
Dual Rasi, or Navansa, delivery will be on the way. A Fixed Rasi/Ansa indicates delivery in
ones own place. Should the Navansa be of the same Rasi, the delivery is in ones own house,
otherwise it is otherwise. The delivery will be in the house of father, or mother according to
the indicator concerned being strong.
5-7. If benefic planets are in full, then the birth is in an enclosed place, under a tree, or on the
banks of a river. Should all planets be together and not aspect Lagna, or the Moon, then the
birth is in a thick forest. If a watery Sign is on the Ascendant and aspected by Full Moon from
a watery Sign being 4th, or 10th, birth is in water (river etc.) and similar results be predicted, if
Lagna and 4th are occupied by benefics and Full Moon is in watery Sign, or in own House.

-- 26 of 203 --

27
8-11. If Scorpio, or Cancer ascends with Saturn and is aspected by Moon, birth is in a deep
place. This view is held by Yavanas and Maniththa. Should Saturn be in watery Rasi rising
and aspected by Mercury, birth is in playground. If the planet aspecting is the Sun, it is
temple and the Moon aspecting indicates barren lands. Should an Aranya Rasi (for example
Leo) be on the Lagna, the birth is in hills, forest, fortress etc. Should a human Rasi be
ascending and is aspected by Mars, it is burial ground, if by Mercury, sculpture home and, if
by the Sun, cowshed, royal palace, or temple. If the aspect is from Venus and Mercury, it
indicates pleasing location and, if from Venus and Jupiter, it is Brahmins place, or where
sacred rites are performed.
12. Should Jupiter be exalted in 10th (Libra Lagna), delivery is in a 2-, 3-, or 4-storied building. If
benefic planets are in Saturns Rasi, or Navansa, coinciding with the 4th, or 10th, the delivery is
in a veranda, or balcony.
13. To know the direction of the delivery room proceed thus. One of the Dual Signs ascending
denotes the quarter (of the direction), in which the room is situated. The other Signs from
Aries on indicate the directions of the room.
14. Should there be a (strong) planet in the Angle of a Sign, the direction, represented by that
Sign will prevail. If Sagittarius ascends with strength, it is 3-storied building, while Capricorn
denotes a spacious house.
15. If Venus is strong at birth, it is a new and painted house. Jupiter in strength denotes a strong
house, while Mars indicates a burnt house. The Sun stands for house constructed of wood. It
is a new house, if the Moon is strong. Saturn in strength indicates an old house.
16-17. The direction of the planet occupying an Angle denotes the direction of entry for the lying-
in-chamber. The planet, that is conjunct with the planet denoting house of birth, indicates the
direction, in which another house related to delivery is located. The Sun indicates temples,
the Moon watery places, Mars fire-houses, Jupiter treasury, Venus parks etc., Saturn filthy
corner and Mercury bedroom etc.
18-20. Now explained is the situation of the cot, on which the delivery took place. The 3rd, 6th, 9th
and 12th indicate the four legs of cot. The first two relate to southern side legs and the other
two denote the northern side legs. If the Ascendant is aspected by a benefic, the kind of cloth
relating to that benefic was spread on the delivery cot. The Ascendant leads to know the
direction, in which the mother was having her head. The depression in the cot corresponds to
the Common Sign occupied by malefics.
21-23. If the Moon is in her debilitation Sign identical with the 4th, or Ascendant, the birth is on the
ground. The number of attendants can be known by the number of planets posited between
the Moon and Lagna. The number of attendants inside the chamber is known by the number
of planets posited in the invisible half and the number of attendants outside the chamber will
correspond to the number of planets in the visible half. If the concerned planets are benefic,

-- 27 of 203 --

28
the attendant ladies are with attractive features, beautiful and bedecked with ornaments.
Malefics similarly indicate, that such females are ugly, unfortunate and dirty. If the planets are
of mixed disposition, but with strength, the attending women are in between the said two
accounts. All these should be accordingly understood.
24-25. Out of the 12 Rasis the one occupied by the Sun will indicate the portion of the delivery
chamber, where light is kept. If it is Fixed Sign, the light burns steadily and, if it is a Moving
Sign, it is unsteady. The portion, that expired in Lagna is indicative of the content, to which
the wick has burnt already. The quantity of oil in the lamp will correspond to the waxing, or
waning state of the Moon.
26-27. There were many lights, if the Sun is aspected by Mars. Should other planets be all weak,
light was obtained by burning grass. Should the Moon be in a Navansa of Saturn, or be in
watery Navansa, or in the 4th House and be in aspect to, or in the company of Saturn,
delivery was in a place of darkness. There is no doubt about this.
28-30. Should the Ascendant be without the aspect of the Moon, the birth is behind the father, i.e.
the father was absent from the place. If the Sun is in the 9th identical with a Movable Rasi, the
father was in a foreign place. The Sun in the case of day birth and Saturn in the case of night
birth, if aspected by Mars, delivery is out of fathers sight. If the said Sun, or Saturn be in a
Movable Sign, death of father (in a distant place) should be declared. If the 5th, 6th and 7th
from the Sun are aspected, or occupied by malefic s, the father was under confinement.
Movable, Fixed and Common Signs here indicate confinement, respectively, in foreign place,
own place and on the way.
31. Should the 7th House and the Trines be occupied by malefics, the delivery is not without
trouble. Benefics in 10th and 4th cause easy delivery in a large room apart from giving wealth.
32-33. The following lead to birth outside wedlock: Moon, or Lagna sans Jupiters aspect;
Luminaries being together without Jupiters aspect; Luminaries along with malefics not
receiving the aspect of Jupiter; Sun, Moon and Jupiter simultaneously in fall, while Saturn is
in Lagna and Lagna, Moon and Venus not being in aspect to Jupiter.
34-36. If the Moon is in 4th, or 7th along with malefics, it is evil to mother. The natives mother dies
(immediately after delivery), if there are malefics in 7th from Moon and aspected by Mars. Sun
in 10th from the Moon along with malefics indicate death of the mother. The same effect
prevails, if Sun is in 5th, or 9th from Venus (?) and with Saturns company, or aspect. If birth
takes place during night-time, while Saturn occupies 5th, or 9th from the Moon, the mother
soon leaves the world. For a day birth, if Mars is 5th, or 9th from Venus and aspected by
malefics, the mother dies (early).
37-40. If Mars and Saturn join in 5th, or 9th from Ascendant, while the Moon is in 7th, the child is
forsaken by the mother. Jupiters aspect in that case bestows happiness and long life. The
child given up dies, if the Moon is in Lagna and Mars in 7th in aspect to malefics. Mars and

-- 28 of 203 --

29
Saturn in 11th bring similar effects. Should a benefic aspect such combinations, the child is
rescued by the respective relative. Both malefics and benefics aspecting indicate death in the
hands of others. Saturn and Mars joining in the same Ansa indicate, that the child will be
forsaken by the mother. Mars in 7th from the Ascendant in aspect to Saturn produces similar
effects.
41. The child acquires the qualities corresponding to the benefics aspects. Should the Sun be
strong, it resembles the father. If the Moon be so, resemblance is that of the mother.
42. When Leo, Aries, or Taurus rises with Mars, or Saturn, there will be coil around the limb, as
indicated by the Navansa Lagna Rasi.
43-44. If the Lagna falls in a decanate of Mars, or Saturn, while malefics, or Moon occupy Lagna,
with benefics relegated to 2nd, or 11th denote, that the child was born with navel cord coiled
around. Should the Sun be in a Quadruped Sign, while others with strength remain in Dual
Signs, it indicates, that twins were born coiled by same navel cord.
45-46. The physical appearance will correspond to the Navansa Lagna, or the strongest of
planets. It may also correspond to the Lord of the Navansa occupied by the Moon. If many
are strong, appearance and complexion will be mixed. Race, caste and country of birth
should be considered, while estimating features and character of a person.
47. Sages say, that the nature of the native will correspond to the Trimsansa occupied by the Sun
at birth.
48. Other information must be understood according to the friendship, enmity and debilitation,
exaltation, or placement in between of the planets at birth.
49. If weak Moon be with malefics, mothers death takes place, while the Sun being so causes
fathers death. These planets indicate sickness (to the concerned parent), if aspected by both
benefics and malefics. Benefics, however, cause auspiciousness.
50. The Moon, being bright, if be in her exaltation Rasi, or in her own Rasi along with Jupiter and
Venus in aspect to Mercury, or the Moon in 5th is capable of giving extreme auspiciousness in
respect of the natives mother. The Sun so placed proves auspicious for father.
Thus ends the 9th Ch. entitled Janma Vidhanadhyaya of Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 10
Evils at Birth
1. In the absence of knowledge of longevity, attempts to know other information are futile. So I
explain below Arishtas (evils) in order to determine longevity.

-- 29 of 203 --

30
2. Male planets are strong in odd Rasis, bright lunar half and day-time. Female planets are strong
in even Rasis, dark lunar half and night-time.
3. There are three kinds of evils, explained by astrological expounders. These are preordained,
accidental and Yogaja (arising of planetary combinations). The third kind is dealt with below,
while others are explained later on.
4. Should Jupiter be in 8th and in a House of Mars and aspected by Sun, Moon, Mars and Saturn,
the child dies in 3 years.
5. If Saturn is retrograde in a House of Mars, while Moon is in 6th, 8th, or an Angle and aspect
Mars, the child born lives for two years.
6-7. If Saturn joins Sun and Moon at birth, the life-span is only nine years, according to
Brahmasaunda. Should Mars, Sun and Saturn be in Taurus identical with 8th, the native lives
for one month even though Lord Yama may try to save him.
8-9. Even, if there be a single malefic in 8th House, owned by Venus and aspected by other
malefics, the native lives for one year only in spite of the fact, that he may drink nectar. If
Venus is in 12th, 6th, or 8th, owned by Sun, or Moon and is aspected by all benefics, the life-
span is six years.
10-11. If Mercury occupies Cancer identical with 6th, or 8th from Ascendant and is aspected by the
Moon, life is only up to 4. The efficacious Raja Yogas expounded by Yavanas may produce
persons of high descent. Even such children are subject to premature end in this case.
12-13. If the birth star is identical with the one, in which Ketu rises, the native lives only for two
months. Should the Sun be in 10th House identical with that of Mars, or Saturn and aspected
by strong malefic, the native faces immediate death.
14-15. Should the Ascendant fall in Nigala, Sarpa, Pakshi, or Pasa decanate and be occupied by
malefic planets, without the aspect of the decanate Lord concerned, the native lives up to 7
years only. If Rahu is in an Angle and aspected by malefics, the longevity is only 10, while,
according to some, it is 16.
16-17. If malefics are Angles and Trines, while benefics are relegated to 6th, 8th and 12th, one
born at the time of sunrise dies at once. If the three planets, viz. the Lords of Navansa Lagna,
Moon Sign and natal Ascendant, are combust, the person lives just for a few years.
18. If the 6th is occupied by the Ascendant Lord, death occurs in the year corresponding to Rasi
concerned. If the occupant is the Lord of rising decanate, death occurs in the month
corresponding to Rasi concerned and, if it is Lord of Navansa Lagna, the Rasi concerned
causes death in so many days.
19. If Saturn is in the Ascendant in aspect to malefics, longevity is only 16 days. If Saturn in the
Ascendant is in the company of malefics, death occurs in a month and, if he is alone in the
Ascendant without malefic connections, the child lives for one year.

-- 30 of 203 --

31
20-22. If weak Moon is in the Ascendant excepting Cancer, Taurus and Aries and is aspected by
malefics, the child passes away (soon). The Moon in 6th, or 8th, if aspected by malefics,
causes death in one year, while, when aspected by benefics, she kills in the 8th year. Should
the aspect be from both benefics and malefics, the life-span is only 4. This should be decided
according to the strength of such bodies.
23-24. Should benefics be in 6th, or 8th and be aspected, or conjoined with retrograde malefic,
without the aspect of benefic, the child lives only for one month. If malefics are in 12th, 2nd, 6th
and 8th, without connection of benefics, the child dies in 6, or 8 months.
25-26. If the Lords of Lagna and the Moon Sign are together in 6th, 8th, or 12th and be combust,
the child dies in the year corresponding to the Rasi. Should the Lord of the Ascendant be in
7th, defeated by a malefic and be without a benefics aspect, death occurs in a month. Similar
clues should be drawn from Moon and her dispositor.
27-28. If Moon is conjoined with Mars and Sun and be in 2nd, or 5th unaspected by benefics, the
child doubtlessly dies in the 9th year. Sages declare, that, if the Ascendant Lord is in 8th in
aspect to all the malefics, who are with strength, the child dies in the fourth month.
29-30. If the Lord of Moon Sign, the Sun an d his son are in 8th, the child dies in the year
corresponding to the Rasi concerned. Should the Moon be with malefics, be in 12th, 8th, 6th, or
Ascendant and be not aspected by benefics, while benefics are non-angular, the child dies at
once.
31-32. If malefics are in the oriental half of the Zodiac (from 10th to 4th Bhava Madhya) with
benefics relegated to the occidental half, birth in Scorpio Ascendant causes what is Vajra
Mushti Yoga. One born in such a Yoga does hardly live. According to Yavanas, if weak Moon
is in Lagna, while malefics are angular, or in 8th, (instant) death is caused.
33-34. One born in twilight does not live long, if the Ascendant falls in lunar Hora, while malefics
are posited in the end of the Rasis, which are angular, along with the Moon. Should the Moon
be amidst two malefics and be in 7th, 4th, or 8th, even Gods cannot save one from (instant)
death.
35-36. If the Moon is hemmed between two malefics, be in the Ascendant, 7th, or 8th and be in
aspect to weak benefics, (infant) death follows. Should malefics be in 7th and 8th and be
aspected by malefics, the child dies along with its mother. If there be aspect from benefics in
such a case, the mother becomes sick (there will not be immediate death).
37-38. If the Moon be eclipsed and be in the Ascendant along with malefics, while Mars is in 8th,
the child quits the world along with its mother. The mother dies of weapons along with the
child, if it be a solar eclipse with Sun and malefics in the Ascendant, while Mars is in 8th.
Should weak Moon be in the Ascendant and malefics be angular, or in 8th, without benefics
aspect, death is imminent. This view is of Satyacarya.

-- 31 of 203 --

32
39-40. The undermentioned combinations cause death soon. Sun in 7th, while Saturn, or Mars is
in Ascendant. Sun in Ascendant, while Saturn, or Mars is in 7th. Saturn, or Mars joining Moon
and she not aspected by benefics. Malefics in Ascendant, 8th, 7th, 4th and 10th, the Moon be
decreasing in 12th.
41-42. Moon, Sun, Saturn and Mars are capable of inflicting infant death, if they are together in
Ascendant, 12th, 9th, or 8th, unaspected by Jupiter. If Ascendant is tenanted by Sun, or Moon,
while malefics are in Trines, or 8th and be not aspected by, or conjoined with benefics,
according to Yavanas, infant death is caused.
43-44. Venus joining the Sun and Saturn causes instant death. This combination doubtlessly
gives death in the 9th year, if aspected by Jupiter. Death in childhood occurs, if Moon is
conjoined with Mars, Sun and Saturn, provided unaspected by benefic planets.
45-46. If Sun is aspected by Mars and Saturn in the case of a day birth, it soon leads to death of
the father. The Sun joining malefics (for day birth) also indicates the same effect. The childs
father and paternal grandfather will face early death, if Sun is in Ascendant along with Mars
and Saturn, but unrelated to Mercury, Jupiter and Venus.
47-48. If Sun is hemmed between two malefics, or is conjoined with malefics, one born during
day-time loses his father early without any doubt. The childs father at once quits the world, if
planet Sun has Mars and Saturn in 8th from him unaspected by benefics.
49-50. If at birth Sun is in a Movable Rasi along with malefics, the father of the child dies of
poison, weapons etc. Malefics (or even a malefic) in 8th, 9th, or 7th from Moon can cause
death of the child along with its mother.
51-52. The father of the child was away at the time of birth, if Sun is in a Movable Sign, in case of
day birth and aspected by Mars. Saturn in a Movable Rasi and in aspect to the Sun in the
case of night birth denotes same results.
53-54. In the case of night birth, if Saturn is in a Movable Sign along with Mars, the father
undoubtedly dies in a distant place. If Sun joins Mars and Saturn in any Rasi, the father dies
before the birth of the native.
55-56. If malefics are disposed in Ascendant, 8th, 7th, 6th and 12th, the child dies along with its
mother. There is no doubt in it. Should only 6th and 8th be occupied by malefics, the mother
does not die, but the child dies. The reverse is true, if malefics are in Ascendant, 8th and 7th.
57-67. Mars, or Saturn in 12th can deprive the native of his eyes. Saturn right and Mars left eye.
The native becomes blind, if Sun and Moon are in 12th, while 6th and 8th are occupied by
malefics. Even, if one among the Sun and the Moon is in 12th, damage to eye is indicated
(Sun affects the right eye, while Moon affects the left one). If Rahu is in Ascendant, while Sun
is in 7th, the native is blind by birth. Should 2nd and 12th be occupied by Moon and Sun, while
malefics are in 8th and 6th, the person born is blind. If Moon is in 6th, Sun in 8th, Saturn in 9th
and Mars in 2nd, simultaneously, the native is blind. Should Moon be in the company of Mars

-- 32 of 203 --

33
and Saturn and be posited in 8th, or 6th, the native looses his eyesight due to bilious and
phlegmatic imbalances. Should the said Moon be conjunct other malefics, apart from Mars
and Saturn, in this combination, if the House involving Moon is the 8th, the damage is to the
right eye and, if it be the 6th, the left eye is damaged. Should, however, this combination be
aspected by benefics, the damage is not at birth, but will be later on. If Moon is in 8th, or 12th
along with Saturn and be aspected by malefics, eyesight is lost due to windy and phlegmatic
complaints (here also 8th indicates right, while 12th the left eye). And, if benefics aspect the
said Moon in 8th/12th, the loss is not at birth, but in the course of time. If Moon is thus
associated with Saturn and Sun (in several ways), damage to eyes is to be predicted.
68-70. YOGAS ADVERSE FOR EARS. Moon in 11th, 3rd, or Ascendant along with malefics
causes defects of the ears. If she is aspected by malefics, the effect is along with birth (i.e.
immediate). Should 9th and 5th be aspected, or occupied by malefics, ear defects at the time
of birth exist. Malefics in 9th affect the right ear, while in 5th they damage the left ear. Benefics
aspecting, or occupying these Houses cause on the other hand good in respect of ears.
71-73. Whatever Rasi is indicative of a disease shall be treated, as the limb to be afflicted by
such disease. The Moon Sign can also be similarly considered. Benefics cause birth marks
on the right, or left side of the body, according to their occupation. Should malefics aspect
these benefics, loss of concerned limb should be expected. Malefics and benefics according
to their association with Moon and the visible and invisible halves (counted from Lagna)
cause bad and good results in this respect.
74-76. DEATH IN FEW DAYS. The Sun and the Moon in the 3rd House identical with Pisces
cause illness from birth and the child lives only for three days. If the Moon is in the 10th from
the Ascendant, while the Sun singly, or with all others is in the 3rd asterism from that occupied
by the Moon, the child lives only for one night. The life span is just one week, if the Sun and
Mars are in the 7th from the Moon.
77-82. EFFECTS OF TIME OF STARTING OF DISEASES.
The following combinations prevailing at the time of a disease cause death in so many days, as
indicated: 1) Malefics in 4th and 8th from Lagna-10 days. 2) Malefics in 2nd and 12th from
Lagna10 days. 3) The Sun in 5th, while Moon is in 9th from the Ascendant12 days. 4) The
Moon in Angle, while the Sun is in 4th, or 8th 3 nights. 5) The Moon in the 4th, while the Sun is
in the 6th 18 days. 6) The Sun in the 5th, or 9th from the Moon20 days. 7) The Sun in the
Ascendant, or the 8th and in aspect to Saturn and Mars will finally inflict death on the patient.
83-88. Mars in Lagna, or other Angles, while Jupiter is not so causes death. The Sun in Lagna,
Jupiter non angular and malefics in the 8th cause immediate death. Similar results should be
predicted, if the Moon is in the Ascendant, while Jupiter is in a place other than Angles and
malefics are in the 8th. Malefics in the 7th from the rising decanate, while the Moon is in the
Ascendant will also cause death at birth. (In this case, the Moon shall be in the rising

-- 33 of 203 --

34
decanate, while malefics shall occupy the l9th decanate). A majority of planets in the
8thprimarily maleficsindicate longevity ranging from seven days to one month. A dead child is
born, if Saturn is in the Ascendant, while Mars is in the 8th, with Jupiter being not in an Angle.
89-9O. MALEFICS IN RISING DECANATE AND TRINES THEREOF. Saturn in the rising
decanate, while a malefic is in the 5th and another in the 9ththe latter two should be exactly
on trinal decanates, as Saturn indicates disease. Mars in the place of Saturn in the said
combination denotes (infant) death, while the Sun so placed indicates disease, deformity, or
death.
91. DEATH. If at birth Mars is in the Ascendant, while Venus is in an Angle, Mars causes death,
when he resumes the same point in the next round in his transit.
92. If Jupiter is in a Trine, Ascendant Lord in the Ascendant and Mars in an Angle to one of them,
it can cause immediate death.
93-97. EXCEEDINGLY LONG LIFE. The native lives for 108 years, if the 8th House is not
occupied, while Ascendant is free from malefic residence and Jupiter is in an Angle. A span
of over 108 years is granted, if Jupiter and Venus are in an Angle, while there are no malefics
in Trines and the 8th. Predict 120 years of life, if Venus is in the Ascendant, Jupiter is in an
Angle other than the Ascendant and the 8th House is not occupied by malefics. Similar span
of life is given, if Jupiter is in Cancer Ascendant along with Venus, or the Moon, while the 8th
House is not occupied. If Angles, Trines and the 8th House are not occupied by malefics,
ones longevity is comparable to that of Gods.
98. ELAPSED LONGEVITY. Weak Moon along with malefics, if posited in the 8th, 7th, 12th, 1st, 5th,
or 9th and un-aspected by benefics will only grant elapsed longevity, i.e. immediate death.
99. TIMING INFANT DEATH. When the child with powerful infant mortal combinations is in its first
year, death will come to pass, if the Moon with strength passes over the natal position of
another qualified planet, or on its own natal position (i.e. Janma Rasi), or natal Ascendant. In
all these cases, the Moon should be aspected by malefics.
100-103. DEATH IN CHILDHOOD. Any one group of the following planets joining in one House
will cause death in five years: d) The Sun, the Moon, Mars and Jupiter, 2) Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn and the Moon, 3) The Sun, Saturn, Mars and the Moon. Even, if a child is on the Gods
laps, it will die in 11th year, if the Sun conjunct Mercury is aspected by malefics. Death within
7 years of age will occur, if the Sun is in the Ascendant along with Mars and Saturn, while
declining Moon is in the 7th House in a House owned by Venus, provided this combination is
not aspected by Jupiter. Should the Sun and the declining Moon be in Angles and be
conjunct with, or in aspect to Mars and Saturn, the child has a longevity of only 4 years. In
these cases, i.e., where child mortality is indicated, there is no use of making any
calculations.

-- 34 of 203 --

35
104. DEATH IN THIRD YEAR. If waning Moon, or Lagna Lord be in the Marana Pada and
aspected by all the malefics, but not benefics, the length of life is only 3 years.
Notes: Marana Pada has been interpreted, as 8th House by some. But it actually means the Rasi
counted so many Signs away from the Rasi, in which the 8th Lord is, as he is away from the
8th. Note how many Signs away the 8th Lord is from the 8th. So many Rasis away from the 8th
Lords Rasi is Marana Pada.
105-107. If all benefic planets are in the visible half of the Zodiac, while malefics are relegated the
invisible half Rahu be specifically in the Ascendant at the time of birth, the longevity is only 3
years. Should Rahu be in the 7th House in exclusive aspect to the Luminaries and be un-
aspected by others, death before the age of 12 is denoted.
108-110. If Rahu is in Aquarius, Leo, or Scorpio identical with the Ascendant and is aspected by
malefics, the life span is only 7. If Dhuma Ketu rises followed by fall of meteor and strong
gale and, if birth occurs in Raudra Muhurta, or Sarpa Muhurta, the subject invites early death.
111-114. FATEFUL DEGREES OF THE MOON. The Moon is capable of inflicting death, if she is
in any of the following degrees at birth: Aquarius 21, Leo 5, Taurus 9, Scorpio 23, Aries 8,
Cancer 12, Libra 4, Capricorn 20, Virgo 1, Sagittarius 18, Pisces 10 and Gemini 22. If the
Moon is in such degrees at birth, death is indicated in the corresponding year and the native
cannot be protected by even God Yama.
115-118. Assess the strengths of Ascendant, Angles etc., at birth. Jupiter is life spirit of all
natives. The time of death should be known through Jupiter. If he is in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th,
10th and 11th, or Ascendant, he proves fatal at the age of 5 10, 46, 20. 30, 40 and 50,
respectively.
Thus ends the 10th Ch. entitled Evils at Birth in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 11
Evils and the Moon
1-2. I now explain the combinations, that are capable of nullifying the said evils, for these are
important in the Science of Horoscopy and initially explained below are the Yogas to
counteract the evils emanating from, or afflicting the Moon, as done by expounders, like Lord
Brahma.
3-4. If the Moon is Full and is aspected by all heavenly bodies, all evils are countered, just as
lawbreakers are destroyed by the king. Venus aspecting the Full Moon, while the latter is in

-- 35 of 203 --

36
friendly divisions is capable of obstructing evils, just as abdominal remedies are able to cure
windy diseases.
5-6. Should the Moon be in her deep exaltation and be aspected by Venus, evils are countered,
just as phlegm and bile are controlled by induced vomiting. If the Moon be in the divisions of
benefic planets and be aspected by benefics, she will not prove evil though she may be
waning, just as nutmeg bark treats dysentery.
7-8. Benefics in the 7th, 8th and 6th from the Moon remove all adversities, just as madness is
removed by Kalyana Grita. Same is the case, if the Moon is conjunct benefics and be in the
decanates owned by benefics, just as saline water controls ear diseases.
9-10. Should the full Moon be in a benefics Dwadasamsa, all evils are removed, just as butter -
milk checks piles. If the Moon occupies a benefics Rasi and receives the Lagna Lords aspect,
adversities for short-life are counteracted, as even a noble housewife can destroy the fame of
the descent, if she seeks union with other men.
11-12. Even though the Moon may be in a House owned by a malefic, or in such Vargas, she
does not prove evil, if aspected by her dispositor. This is comparable-to a miser protecting his
money. If the dispositor of the Moon is strong and be in aspect to benefics, or friendly
planets, the Moon is not capable of harming, in comparison to a timid person, who cannot
face others even though he may be in war field.
13-14. If the Lord of the Moon Sign is in Lagna and is aspected by all planets, all evils are
removed, just as the ointment of holy fig and bamboo bark removes whiteness. The Moon in
her exaltation, own, friendly, or benefic Vargas, aspected by benefics, but not malefics
counteracts all-evils, as the Sun does remove fog.
15. Just as quartan fever is removed by inhaling Agashya flower, all evils are checked by Mercury
and Venus in the 12th of Moon, malefics in the 11th and Jupiter in the 10th.
16-17. Should the Moon be in the 6th, 3rd, 10th, 11th, or 4th from the natal Ascendant and be
aspected by benefics, evils are removed, as though a king destroys his opponents. The Lord
of the Moon Sign is singly capable of removing all evils, if he is with full strength and
aspected by benefics, similar to an inebriated tiger throwing away a thousand deer.
Thus ends the 11th Ch., entitled Evils and the Moon in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 36 of 203 --

37
Chapter 12
Evils Canceled at Birth
1. A very brilliant Jupiter (i.e. not being devoid of rays) is capable of counteracting all evils, if he is
in the Ascendant, just as a single sincere Prostration before Lord Vishnu, the wearer of
Sudarshana Chakra, relieves one of the greatest sins.
2. Benefics with strength and malefics without it remove all evils, if Ascendant falls in a benefics
House and is aspected by benefics, just as those, who worship planets will have no sins left
to their liability.
3-5. If malefics occupy the Rasis and Amsas of benefics (i.e. such benefic divisions) and be in
aspect to benefics, evils are removed, just as a dejected lady remains away from her
husband. Should Rahu be in the 3rd, 6th, or 11th from the Ascendant and be aspected by
benefics all evils are destroyed, as though wind carries away a heap of cotton with it. If all
planets be in direct motion and in Seershodaya Signs, all blemishes are removed, just as
ghee is burnt out in fire.
6-7. A benefic planet victorious in planetary war at birth and essentially aspected by another
benefic, destroys all evils, just as a gale can uproot trees. If a planet has a halo (in the sky)
and is aspected by a malefic, evils are countered, just as the solar eclipse day bath in
Kurukshetra does.
8-9. If there is a pleasant breeze at the time of birth and the sky is with pleasing clouds and the
heavenly bodies be with splendour, the evils disappear in a fillip, just as rains settle dust. If
birth takes place, when Agasthya and others of Saptharshis (Alfa Carini, or Great Bear) rise,
all evils are destroyed, just as darkness disappears, when the Sun rises.
10-11. Rahu in the Ascendant identical with Aries, Taurus, or Cancer protects the native from the
clutches of all evils, just as a pleased king forgives the crimes of a person. If all the planets
(not of course the nodes) arc in their own decanates, all evils are removed, just as the Sun
removes darkness.
12. If at birth many planets are capable of giving benefic results, even then there is no blemish,
just as the king gets success in journey undertaken, when the Moon is in a Trine to the Sun.
13. Should Jupiter and Venus be in Angles, evils arising out of the various Rasis (i.e. Bhavas)
and of the Moon are countered. And the native lives for hundred years.
14. If Jupiter and the Moon be in Cancer, identical with 4th, 10th, or the Ascendant, Mercury and
Saturn be in Libra, while others are in the 11th, 3rd and 6th, one has illimitable longevity.
15. I have thus explained the Yogas, that are capable of countering the evils, as laid down by our
great ancestors May the astrologers please the king with the knowledge of these.
Thus ends the 12th Ch. entitled Cancellation of evils at birth in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 37 of 203 --

38
Chapter 13
Lunar Yogas
1. SUNAPHA, ANAPHA AND DURUDHURA YOGAS. Excepting the Sun, any other planet in the
2nd from the Moon causes Sunapha Yoga, in the 12th Anapha Yoga and in both the 2nd and
the 12th Durudhura Yoga.
2. KEMADRUMA YOGA. Kemadruma Yoga is formed, if at least one of the said three Yogas (viz.
Sunapha, Anapha and Durudhura Yogas) is not present, or, if the Moons Angles are devoid
of planets, or, if she is un-aspected by all the planets. Such Yoga causes extreme difficulties.
3. DIFFERENT PERMUTATIONS. By all possible permutations and transmutations, one can see
30 kinds of Sunapha Yoga, 30 kinds of Anapha Yoga and 180 kinds of Durudhura Yoga.
4. EFFECTS OF SUNAPHA YOGA. One born with Sunapha Yoga will be wealthy, will have self-
made prowess (or will reach an exalted position of his own efforts), be very virtuous, be
learned in Shastras and their meanings, be very famous, virtuous (like Lord Rama), be
peacefully disposed, happy, be a king, or a minister and be highly intelligent.
5. EFFECTS OF ANAPHA YOGA. One born in Anapha Yoga will be eloquent in speech,
magnanimous, virtuous, will enjoy food, drink, flowers, robes and females, will be famous,
calm in disposition, happy, pleased and will possess a beautiful body.
6. EFFECTS OF DURUDHURA YOGA. One born in Durudhura Yoga will be famous on the earth
for his speech, wisdom, valour and virtues. He will enjoy freedom, comforts, wealth and
conveyances. He will be liberal, but will come to grief by maintaining his family members. He
will have good behaviour.
7. EFFECTS OF KEMADRUMA YOGA. The native with Kemadruma Yoga will be deprived of life,
drinks, food, residence, robes and friends, though he may belong to regal scion. He will suffer
from poverty, grief, sickness and be dirty. He will live by hard labour, be wicked and be
inimically disposed to one and all.
8-9. OTHER KIND OF SUNAPHA ETC. The kind of Sunapha Yoga etc. arising from the Moons
Angles are (also) important. These Yogas give effects according to the state of the Moon (i.e.
depending on her rays, being Full, New etc.). The strength of the planets, viz. Mars etc.,
causing these Yogas, natives country and the race he belongs to must be properly
understood before evaluating Sunapha etc.
10-11. RESULTS OF SUCH YOGAS CAUSED BY MARS ETC. If Sunapha Yoga is caused by
Mars (by being in the 2nd of the Moon), the native will be valorous, wealthy, cruel in speech,
be an Army chief, will be fierce, torturous, proud and inimical. If Mercury be the cause of
Sunapha Yoga, the native will be expert in Vedas, Shastras and music. He will be virtuous

-- 38 of 203 --

39
and a poet. He will be high-minded, intent on thinking of good for all and will possess a
brilliant physique.
12-14. Should Jupiter cause Sunapha Yoga, a person so born will have high learning, will be
famous and himself be a king, or dear to a king. He will have a good family and have plenty
of wealth. Venus will give wife, lands, wealth, prowess, quadrupeds and valour. The native
will further be honoured by king and will also be courageous. Should Saturn be in the 2nd of
the Moon causing Sunapha Yoga, the native will be skillful, be worshipped by the people in
his village and city and will have wealth galore. He will be devoted to his work and be brave.
15-19. ANAPHA YOGAS EFFECTS GIVEN BY MARS ETC.
If Anapha Yoga is caused by Mars-being in the 12th from the Moon, the native will head a band of
thieves, will be arrogant in disposition, be honoured, fond of war, given to anger, good,
praiseworthy, good-bodied and proud. If by Mercury, the native will be an expert in singing,
dancing and writing, will be a poet and an able orator. He will be conferred honours by tile
ruler. will have a brilliant body and will perform famous deeds. Should the Yoga be caused by
Jupiter, the native will be majestic, strong, intelligent, fond of assembly, famous through a
king and will be a poet. Venus causing this Yoga gives an exceedingly great liking for women.
The native will be dear to the king and will enjoy pleasures. He will be splendourous, famous
and will have abundant gold. If Saturn causes this Yoga, the subject will be broad-
shouldered, be a leader, be indired to keep up his commitments, be rich with quadrupeds,
devoted to an infamous lady and be virtuous.
20. EFFECTS OF DURUDHURA YOGA CAUSED BY MARS ETC. If Durudhura Yoga is caused
by the pair of Mars and Mercury, the native will be a liar, be very wealthy, expert, very
wicked, greatly miserly, addicted to an old lady and be chief in his race.
21. If Durudhura Yoga is caused by Mars and Jupiter , one will be famous by his deeds, be mighty
(or wealthy), inimically disposed to many and disposed to anger, will protect his men and will
gather money.
22. If the Moon has Venus and Mars on either side, the native will have a virtuous wife, will be
fortunate, argumentative, pure, skilful, will like doing exercises and be bold in war.
23. If Saturn and Mars flank the Moon, the native will be the husband of a bad lady. He will save
a lot of money. He will have vices. He will be given to anger and be a tale bearer. He will win
over his enemies.
24. Should Jupiter and Mercury be on either side of the Moon, the native will be virtuous, learned
in Shastras, garrulous, be a good poet, be wealthy, capable of making sacrifices and be
famous.
25. If Durudhura Yoga is caused by Mercury and Venus, the person will be a sweet speaker, be
fortunate, splendourous, beautiful, be fond of dance, singing etc., be served, valiant and be a
minister.

-- 39 of 203 --

40
26. If Mercury and Saturn flank the Moon , the native will move from one country to the other to
earn money. He will not be much educated, will be worshipped by others, but be inimical to
his own men.
27. Should Jupiter and Venus cause this Yoga , by being on either side of the Moon, the native
will be courageous, intelligent, will have political wisdom, will possess gold and gems, will be
famous and be in the employ of a king.
28.1f Jupiter and Saturn be such planets, as to cause Durudhura Yoga the native will be happy,
will have knowledge of politics, will be sweet in speech, learned, peaceful, wealthy and good
looking.
29. One, who has Durudhura Yoga caused by Venus and Saturn will conduct himself, like an old
man (i.e. so mature), be chief in his race, skilful, dear to women and will have plenty of
money. He will be honoured by the king and gather abundant wealth.
30. LUNAR YOGAS FROM THE SUN. If the Moon is in an Angle from the Sun, little effects will
be felt in regard to money, wisdom, skill, learning and modesty. These are medium, if the
Moon be in Panaphara (i.e. 2nd 5th, 8th and 11th) and exceedingly good in Apoklima (i.e. 3rd,
6th. 9th and 12th).
31. MOON IN VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE HALVES. In the case of a night birth, if the Moon is with
Parivesha (halo) and be declining in the invisible half of the Zodiac (i.e. being posited
between Lagna Bhava Madhya and the center of the descendant7th House), or declining
Moon in day time be in the visible half (i.e. between the centres of the descendant and the
Ascendant), even results will be felt in respect of fear, grief etc., (that is these positions confer
bad results). The Full Moon gives kingdom, if she be contrarily posited.
32. DHANA YOGAS. If all benefics are posited in Upachayas i.e. 3, 6, 10 and 11, the native will
acquire much wealth. Two benefics confer moderate wealth, while one confers little wealth in
the said Upachaya. These can be deduced from the Moon also.
33. There are other Raja Yogas, like Adhi Yoga arising from the Moon. I have not dealt with them
here which I have done infra.
Thus ends the 13th Ch. entitled Yogas from the Moon in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 40 of 203 --

41
Chapter 14
Yogas from the Sun
1. VASI, VESI, UBHAYACHARI YOGAS FROM THE SUN . Excluding the Moon (and nodes) a
planet in the 12th from the Sun causes Vasi Yoga, in the 2nd Vesi Yoga and in both the 12th
and the 2nd Ubhayachari Yoga.
2. RESULTS OF VESI YOGA. One born in Vesi Yoga will be weak-sighted, firm in his word, be
hard working and will have a bent body. So say Yavanas.
3-5. EFFECTS OF VESI YOGA CAUSED BY DIFFERENT PLANETS . Should Jupiter cause Vesi
Yoga, the native will accumulate money, be learned and be good-hearted. If Venus produces
this Yoga, the person will be timid, will face obstacles in his missions, will have pleasant (or
swift) movements and will be defeated. Mercury causing this Yoga indicates, that the native
will be a servant, will suffer penury, be soft-spoken and be modest. He will be bashful. Mars
denotes, that the native will resort to base means, but be helpful to others. If it is Saturn, that
causes Vesi Yoga, one will join others wives, be wicked, will resemble an old person in
appearance,-be fraudulent in disposition and be contemptuous. He will, however, have
wealth.
6. EFFECTS OF VASI YOGA. One born in Vasi Yoga will possess excellent speech (voice), good
memory, be employed, will have looks towards, sideways, will possess a strong physique
about the waist, will be equal to a king and be a genuine person.
7-9. EFFECTS OF VASI YOGA BY DIFFERENT PLANETS .
If Jupiter should cause Vasi Yoga, the native will possess courage, strength and wisdom. He will
keep up his word. In the case of Venus, the person will be valorous, famous, virtuous and
reputed. Mercury emanating this Yoga will make one speak sweetly, be be autiful and obey
others orders. The Vasi Yoga caused by Mars indicates, that the subject will be victorious in
war, famous and will live with his own fortunes. If by Saturn, the native will be a businessman,
wicked, will steal others money, will hate elders and will be the husband of a pious lady.
10. The strength of the planet Sun and that of the planets causing these Yogas and their
association with various Rasis and Amsas should be understood and all results be declared
accordingly.
11. EFFECTS OF UBHAYACHARI YOGA. One born under Ubhayachari Yoga will have
forebearance, will be very fortunate, even bodied, firm, profoundly strong, not very tall, full of
everything, learned, happy, will have many servants, will protect his relatives, be equal to a
king, ever enthusiastic and will enjoy all pleasures.
Thus ends the 14th Ch. entitled Yogas from the Sun in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 41 of 203 --

42
Chapter 15
Conjunctions of Two Planets
1.INTRODUCTION TO TWO-PLANETARY YOGAS.
Vriddha Yavanas have stated the effects of combinations of two planets (in one House). I state
those below without ego.
2. SUN - MOON YOGA. One, who has the Sun and Moon together will be at the disposal of his
wife (or females), immodest, be a metallurgist (can be interpreted also, as able to deceive),
will be quite wealthy and be an expert in sale of intoxicants.
3. SUN - MARS YOGA. Should the Sun and Mars be in one House the native will be
splendourous, valorous, dull witted, strong, be a liar, be sinful, disposed to kill (or torture) and
be fierce.
4. SUN - MERCURY YOGA. If the Sun and Mercury are in one House, the native will be in
service, will have unsteady wealth, be sweet in speech, will have fame and money, be noble,
dear to king and good people and will possess strength, beauty and learning.
5. SUN - JUPITER YOGA. If the Sun and Jupiter be together, one will be virtuous, be a minister
of king, will gain through friends, be with good mind and be a preceptor.
6. SUN-VENUS YOGA. If the Sun and Venus be together, one will be skillful in use of weapons,
be mighty, weak-sighted in old age, will be able to amuse the public and will have abundant
money earned through women.
7. SUN-SATURN YOGA. If the Sun and Saturn are together, the native will be a metallurgist, be
virtuous, mindful of his own duties, will lose his wife and son, will have the qualities suitable to
his race, will be pure, but not so upright.
8. MOON-MARS YOGA. One, who has the Moon and Mars together, will be valorous, brave in
war, be a boxer, will suffer bloody imbalances, or diseases, will manufacture articles of mud,
skin and minerals and will be an artisan and a metallurgist.
9. MOON-MERCURY YOGA. One, who has the Moon Mercury combination will be expert in
poems and fables, be wealthy, amiable to his wife, beautiful, smiling-faced and will be
endowed with distinct virtues.
10. JUPITER-MOON YOGA. One with Jupiter and the Moon together will be firm in friendship,
modest, respectful towards his relatives, wealthy, virtuous and regardful of Gods and the
wise.
11. MOON-VENUS YOGA. Should the Moon and Venus be together, the native will be endowed
with flowers, incense and clothes, will know to perform duties (kriya also means rites), be
dear to his race, very lazy and expert in buying and selling.

-- 42 of 203 --

43
12. MOON-SATURN YOGA. Should the Moon and Saturn be together, the native will possess a
decayed wife, be dear to public, will breed elephants and horses, be devoid of virtues, be
under the control of others, unwealthy and defeated.
13. MARS-MERCURY YOGA. If Mars and Mercury are together at birth, the native will have
unlucky wife, little wealth, will work with gold and iron, be an architect, will keep a wicked
widow and be expert in making medicines.
14. MARS-JUPITER YOGA . If Mars and Jupiter be together at birth, the native will be an artisan,
Vedic expert, intelligent, expert in speech, wise and fond of using weapons.
15. MARS-VENUS YOGA. One, who had Mars and Venus together at birth will be worshipped,
be chief among his men, be a mathematician (or an astrologer) and be fond of gambling,
untruth etc.
16. MARS-SATURN YOGA . If Mars and Saturn be together, one will be a metallurgist. be expert
in jugglery, be deceitful, skillful in thieving, troubled by weapons and poison and be fond of
quarrels.
17. MERCURY-JUPITER YOGA . One, who has Mercury and Jupiter together will be a noted
dancer, scholar, singer and instrumentalist. He will be wise and happy.
18. MERCURY-VENUS YOGA. Should Mercury and Venus be together at birth, the native will be
abundantly rich, a politician, an artisan, will study Vedas, be good in speech, will know to
sing, make fun and like scents and flowers.
19. MERCURY-SATURN YOGA . One, who has Mercury and Saturn together at birth, will contract
debts, be proud, deceiving, an able poet, intent on moving, expert and will possess
auspicious speech.
20. JUPITER-VENUS YOGA. One, who has Jupiter and Venus together at birth will live by
education and arguments, will follow a highly virtuous path, will have accurate conception, or
notion (of things) and will have a supreme wife.
21. JUPITER-SATURN YOGA. A native, who has Jupiter and Saturn together at birth will be
heroic, will have plenty of wealth, will be chief of the city (mayor etc.), famous and will be the
head of an assembly, a village, or an association.
22. VENUS-SATURN YOGA. If Venus and Saturn are together at birth, one will be expert in
breaking wood, be a barber, painter, or sculptor, boxer, be intent on wandering and be owner
of quadrupeds.
23. Whatever results have been stated, as above are likely to become increased, or decreased
according to mutual good, or bad Vargas occupied by the planets in question.
Thus ends the 15th Ch. entitled Conjunction of two planets in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 43 of 203 --

44
Chapter 16.
Conjunctions of 3 Planets
1.SUN-MOON-MARS YOGA.
Should the Sun, the Moon and Mars be together at birth, the native will be bereft of shame, be
sinful, will have knowledge of machinery, will destroy enemies, be brave and will be expert in
any kind of work.
2. SUN-MOON-MERCURY YOGA.
If the Sun, Moon and Mercury are together, the native will be splendourous, very intelligent, will
be fond of arts, assembly and drinks, be in royal service and bold.
3. SUN-MOON-JUPITER YOGA.
Should the Sun, Moon and Jupiter be in one House; the native will be given to anger, be cunning,
expert in service, intent on going to foreign places, be intelligent and fickle minded.
4. SUN-MOON-VENUS YOGA.
Should the Sun, Moon and Venus be in one House at birth, the native will steal others money, will
be a debaucher and be expert in Shastras.
5. SUN-MOON-SATURN YOGA.
If the Sun, Moon and Saturn be together in one House, the native will be lustful, be expert in
arguments, be a dunce, be at the disposal of others and be poor.
6. SUN-MARS-MERCURY YOGA.
If the Sun, Mars and Mercury are in one House at birth, the native will be famous, hard-hearted,
shameless and be devoid of wealth, sons and wife.
7. SUN-JUPITER-MARS YOGA.
Should Mars, Jupiter and the Sun be together at birth, the native will be an expert speaker, very
wealthy, either a kings minister, or even a king himself, be truthful and fierce.
8. VENUS-MARS-SUN YOGA.
One, who has Venus, Mars and the Sun in one House, will be subjected to eye diseases, belongs
to a good race, will be fortunate, harsh and wealthy.
9. MARS-SUN-SATURN YOGA.
Should Mars, Saturn and the Sun be together, the native will have deformed limbs, be without
wealth, always sick, without his people and be a big fool.
10. JUPITER-MERCURY-SUN YOGA.
If Jupiter, Mercury and the Sun be together at birth, the native will be subjected to eye-diseases,
be very wealthy, be interested in Shastras, fables, poetry, meetings and stonework and will
become a good writer.

-- 44 of 203 --

45
11. MERCURY-SUN-VENUS YOGA.
If Mercury, Sun and Venus be together, the native will be insatiable, talkative, intent on wandering
and subjected to grief on account of women.
12. SATURN-SUN-MERCURY YOGA.
One, who has Saturn, the Sun and Mercury in one House will be a neuter, will hate others and
will be given up by his relatives.
13. VENUS-JUPITER-SUN YOGA.
Should Venus, Jupiter and the Sun be together at birth, the native will be weak-sighted, bold,
intelligent, indigent, be a minister and be devoted to others jobs.
14. JUPITER-SATURN-SUN YOGA.
If Jupiter, Saturn and the Sun be together at birth. the native will not have a prominent physique,
will be worshipped, will hate his own men, will have good wife, children and friends, be dear
to the king and be fearless.
15. VENUS-SATURN-SUN YOGA.
One, who has Venus, Saturn and the Sun together at birth will be emotionally upset due to fear
from enemies, will be devoid of honour and knowledge of arts and poetry, will have a mean
history and will suffer from Leprosy.
16. MOON-MERCURY-MARS YOGA.
Should the Moon Mercury and Mars be together at birth, the native will be sinful, mean in habits
and conduct and devoid of friends and relatives throughout life.
17. MARS-MOON-JUPITER YOGA.
A native, who has Mars, the Moon and Jupiter together at birth will have an even body, be
addicted to women, be a thief, be splendourous, dear to women and given to anger.
18. MARS-VENUS-MOON YOGA.
One, who has Mars, Venus and the Moon together at birth is the son of a bad woman and also
will wed such a lady. He will be of wandering disposition and will have fear from cold.
19. MARS-MOON-SATURN.
If Mars, Moon and Saturn join at birth, the person concerned will lose his mother in boyhood, be
mean, wicked and inimical to people.
20. MERCURY-MOON-JUPITER YOGA.
Should Mercury, Moon and Jupiter be together, the native will be wealthy, skilful, eloquent in
speech, bright, famous and will have many sons and brothers.
21. MERCURY-VENUS-MOON YOGA.
One, who has Mercury, Venus and Moon together at birth, will be mean in conduct in spite of his
being learned and cultured. be Jealous and miserly.

-- 45 of 203 --

46
22. SATURN-MOON-MERCURY YOGA.
If Saturn, Moon and Mercury be together, the person concerned will be dependent, deformed,
learned, be an able speaker and respected by the king.
23. VENUS-JUPITER-MOON YOGA.
Should Venus, Jupiter and the Moon be in one House at birth, the native will be a chaste womans
son, be a scholar, will have knowledge of arts and many Shastras, be virtuous and beautiful.
24. MOON-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
One, who has Moon, Jupiter and Saturn combination at birth will know the inner meaning of
Shastras, will seek union with aged women, be devoid of shame and be the head of a village
and people.
25. MOON-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
If the Moon, Venus and Saturn are in combination at birth, one will be a writer, reader of books,
Purohita (family guru), will have to his credit merits of past birth and be an astrologer.
26. MERCURY-JUPITER-MARS YOGA.
One, who has Mercury, Jupiter and Mars together will be a good poet, Lord of a group, will marry
a virtuous lady, be intent on helping others and an expert singer.
27. MARS-MERCURY-VENUS YOGA.
Should Mars, Mercury and Venus be together at birth, the native will give up his caste, be
deformed, fickle-minded, wicked and garrulous.
28. MERCURY-SATURN-MARS YOGA.
Should Mercury, Saturn and Mars be together at birth, one will be a servant, will have dark eyes,
be intent on living in foreign places, will have facial diseases and will be witty.
29. VENUS-JUPITER-MARS YOGA.
One, who has Venus, Jupiter and Mars together at birth will be dear to king, will have good sons
and enjoy pleasures through women. He will please all persons.
30. JUPITER-MARS-SATURN YOGA.
If Jupiter, Mars and Saturn be together at birth, the native will be honoured by the king, will have
wounds on the body, be mean and blamed by friends. He will also be unkind.
31. SATURN-MARS-VENUS YOGA.
If Saturn, Mars and Venus are in one House at birth, the native is born to an immoral lady, will
marry such a lady, will be devoid of happiness and will be intent on wandering in distant
places.
32. MERCURY-JUPITER-VENUS.
Should Mercury, Jupiter and Venus be together, the native will have good physique, be
successful over his enemies, be a king, fortunate, widely famous and truthfully disposed.

-- 46 of 203 --

47
33. MERCURY-SATURN-JUPITER.
When Mercury, Saturn and Jupiter are together at birth, it denotes, that the native will enjoy
honour, wealth and sovereignty, be learned, will have abundant pleasures, be attached to his
wife, be courageous and fortunate.
34. MERCURY-VENUS-SATURN.
One, who has Mercury, Venus and Saturn together at birth will be scurrilous in speech,
fraudulent, be a liar, addicted to other women, vehement, (vishama has several other
meanings, viz., irregular, uneven, mysterious, inaccessible, rough, painful, troublesome etc.),
will have knowledge of arts and be attached to his own country.
35. JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN.
Should Jupiter, Venus and Saturn be in one House at birth one will become a king even though
he might be of mean natal order, will be very famous and be a repository of virtues.
36. PARENTS. If the Moon is in the company of malefics, it is detrimental to the mother of the
native. Predict similar results regarding the father of the native, if the Sun joins malefics at
birth. Benefics in the place of malefics in the said Yogas will prove auspicious to the
respective parent. If the planets joining be of mixed nature (i.e. one benefic and another
malefic), the effects are medium.
37-38. BENEFICS IN CONJUNCTION AND MALEFICS IN CONJUNCTION.
If benefics are in conjunction at birth, the native will enjoy wealth, sovereignty and fame. Such a
combination produces an emperor capable of ruling the earth. Should three malefics join at
birth, the native will be unlucky, indigent, grief-stricken, ugly and immodest.
Thus ends the 16th Ch. entitled 3 planets in combination in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 17.
Four Planets in Conjunction
1.SUN-MOON-MARS-MERCURY YOGA.
Should these four planets be together at birth. the native will be a writer, a thief and be scurrilous
in speech. He will be sickly, cunning and be capable of deceiving others.
2. MOON-MARS-JUPITER-SUN YOGA.
one, who has these four planets in one House at birth, will be wealthy, dear to women,
splendourous, will maintain decorum, be free from grief and expert in work.

-- 47 of 203 --

48
3. MOON-MARS-VENUS-SUN YOGA.
If these four planets join at birth, one will speak and conduct himself, as a great person, be
happy, expert, intent on gathering money and will have learning, sons and wife.
4. SUN-MOON-MARS-SATURN YOGA.
One, who has these four planets together at birth, will have uneven physique, be short in stature,
be unwealthy and will collect food by begging and be a proven dunce.
5. MOON-MERCURY-JUPITER-SUN YOGA.
If these four planets are in one House, the native will be a goldsmith (or a gold dealer etc.), be
long eyed, be a sculptor, be very wealthy, bold and beautiful bodied.
6. SUN-MOON-MERCURY-VENUS YOGA.
The native, who has these four planets together at birth, will be deformed, lucky, short-statured
and dear to king.
7. SUN-MOON-MERCURY-SATURN YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, the native will lose his parents in childhood, be devoid
of money and happiness, be wandering, will earn food by begging and will be a liar.
8. VENUS-JUPITER-MOON YOGA.
Should these planets be in one House at birth, the subject concerned will be head of water,
animals and forests (i.e. his livelihood may be through such sources), will be happy,
honoured by the king and be an expert.
9. SUN-JUPITER-MOON-SATURN YOGA.
If the said planets join at birth, the native will be dark-eyed, fierce, will have many sons, be
wealthy and fortunate through women.
10. SUN-MOON-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
Should one have a combination of these planets in one House at birth, the native will have habits,
like a female, be very weak, desirous of coming up and timid at all times.
11. SUN-JUPITER-MARS-MERCURY YOGA.
These four planets together at birth indicate, that the subject will be brave, be a composer of
Shastras, or a ruler of province, will lose his wife and money, be undesirable and will wander.
12. SUN-VENUS-MARS-MERCURY YOGA.
If these four planets be together at birth, the native will be addicted to other women, be a thief,
will have uneven limbs, will be a bad person and will be bereft of energy.
13. MERCURY-SUN-MARS-SATURN YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, the subject will be a warrior, scholar, be fierce, will be
meanly disposed, be chief among poets and be a minister, or a king.
14. SUN-MARS-JUPITER-VENUS YOGA.
with the conjunction of these four planets, one will be fortunate, worth worship by the people, be
wealthy, dear to king and famous.

-- 48 of 203 --

49
15. SUN-MARS-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
Should these join at birth, one will be rash, prime among his group, will have cherished desires,
will be endowed with relatives and friends and dear to king.
16. SUN-MARS-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
One, who has these four planets together at birth, will be deformed, mean in conduct, oblique-
sighted, will hate his relatives and will always be insulted.
17. SUN-MERCURY-VENUS YOGA.
With these planets in one House, one will be wealthy, happy, chief, will have cherished desires,
will have relatives and be noble.
18. SATURN-SUN-MERCURY-JUPITER YOGA.
One, who has these four planets together at birth, will have a neuters habits, be prestigious, fond
of quarrels, will have brothers, or sisters and be not enthusiastic.
19. SUN-MERCURY-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
Should these four planets be in conjunction at birth, one will be scurrilous in speech, fortunate,
learned, soft spoken, happy, energetic, pure, wealthy, bold and helpful to friends.
20. SUN-SATURN-VENUS-JUPITER YOGA.
These four planets in conjunction at birth will make the person a miser, a poet, chief, leader of
sculptors and mean.
21. MOON-MARS-MERCURY-JUPITER YOGA.
One, who has the conjunction of these four planets at birth, will be an expert in Shastras, be a
king, or a great minister and be extremely intelligent.
22. MOON-MARS-MERCURY-VENUS YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, one will be fond of quarrels, will sleep much, be mean,
will marry an unchaste lady, be fortunate, will hate his relatives and be not happy.
23. MOON-MERCURY-MARS-SATURN YOGA.
One, who has these four planets together will be bold, be without parents, is from an ignoble
race, will have many wives, friends and sons and will have good conduct.
24. MOON-MARS-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, one will be deformed, will have a good wife, be highly
tolerant, be self-respected, learned will have many friends and be happy. 25. MARS-MOON-
SATURN-JUPITER YOGA. One, who has these four planets conjunct at birth will be deaf,
wealthy, bold, rash in speech, firm in nature, wise and liberal.
26. MARS-MOON-SATURN-VENUS YOGA.
If these four planets are together, one will marry an unchaste lady, will be proud, will have eyes
resembling that of a snake and will be always emotional. This is certain.

-- 49 of 203 --

50
27. MERCURY-JUPITER-MOON-VENUS YOGA.
One, who has these four planets together will be learned, be devoid of parents, good looking,
wealthy, very lucky and be without enemies.
28. MOON-MERCURY-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
Should these be conjunct one will be virtuous, famous, noble and splendourous, fond of relatives,
wise, be a kings minister and be a chief poet.
29. MOON-MERCURY-SATURN-VENUS YOGA.
If these planets are together at birth, the native will be intent on seeking sexual pleasures with
others wives, will have an unchaste wife, be devoid of relatives, learned and will hate people.
30. MOON-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
The native with these four planets conjunct will be devoid of mother, be lucky, will suffer from skin
diseases, will be subjected to grief, be intent on roaming, will know many languages and will
be truthful.
31. MERCURY-MARS-JUPITER-VENUS YOGA.
If these four planets are in one House, the subject will be fond of picking up quarrels with his wife,
will be wealthy, worshipped by the people, will possess good qualities and be free from
sickness.
32. MARS-MERCURY-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
One, who has these four planets in one House at birth, will be brave, learned, be a good speaker,
be without wealth, truthful and will have good habits. He will be able to argue and endure. He
will be intelligent.
33. MERCURY-MARS-SATURN-VENUS YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, the native will be an expert boxer, will depend on
others, will have coarse body, will possess pride of war, be famous and will breed dogs.
34. MARS-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
If these four planets are together at birth, the native will be splendourous, wealthy, addicted to
other women, fond of bravery, fickle-minded and ill-disposed.
35. MERCURY-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
Should these be together at birth, the native will be intelligent, interested in Shastras, be a
debaucher and an obedient servant.
Thus ends the 17th Ch. entitled Effects of four planets in conjunction in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 50 of 203 --

51
Chapter 18.
Effects of Conjunction of Five Planets
1.SUN-MOON-MARS-JUPITER-MERCURY YOGA.
If these five planets are together at birth, the native will be subjected to grief, will be cunning, be
bereaved of wife and will experience physical distresses.
2. SUN-MOON-MARS-VENUS-MERCURY YOGA.
If these five planets join at birth, the native will be intent on doing others jobs, will lose his
strength, or courage through his relatives and friends and will befriend a neuter.
3. SATURN-SUN-MERCURY-MOON-MARS YOGA.
Should these be conjunct at birth, the native will be short lived, imprisoned and be devoid of every
kind of happiness, wife, sons and money.
4. MARS-MOON-JUPITER-VENUS-SUN YOGA.
Should these five planets join at birth, the native will be blind by birth, subjected to much grief, be
devoid of parents, always dejected in mood and fond of singing.
5. SATURN-MOON-MARS-JUPITER-SUN YOGA.
If there be a combination of these planets in one House, the native will be all expert warrior, will
steal others money, give trouble to others, be a tale-bearer and fickle-minded.
6. SUN-MOON-VENUS-SATURN-MARS YOGA.
Should the said five planets join in one House, the native will be devoid of respect, money and
prosperity, will have dirty conduct and be addicted to women.
7. MERCURY-MOON-JUPITER-SUN-SATURN YOGA.
One with the conjunction of these planets will be a machinist, will enjoy great prosperity, be a
kings minister, be a judge and be famous.
8. MERCURY-MOON-JUPITER-SUN-SATURN YOGA.
With these five planets in one House, the native will be timid, be deprived of people dear to him,
expert in cheating, given to anger and will depend on others for food.
9. SUN-MOON-MERCURY-SATURN-VENUS YOGA.
One, who has the said five planets together at birth will be tall in stature, will have a hairy body
and be not endowed with happiness, money and sons.
10. SUN-MOON-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
One with these five planets together at birth, will indulge in jugglery, be fickle-minded, be liked by
women, be learned, will have many enemies and be fearless.

-- 51 of 203 --

52
11. MERCURY-MARS-SUN-JUPITER-VENUS YOGA.
If these planets join at birth, the native will be sensuous, will have a fleet of horses, will do good
acts, be an Army chief, be dear to king, very fortunate and free from grief.
12. SUN-MARS-MERCURY-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
Should a native have these planets conjunct, he will be emotional, sick, will earn food by begging
going from House to House and will live in dilapidated Houses.
13. MARS-MOON-MERCURY-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
One with these five planets together at birth will be troubled by wounds, imprisonment and
diseases, be learned, honoured by the people, be poor and deformed.
14. MARS-SATURN-SUN-VENUS-MERCURY YOGA.
One with the said five planets together will be troubled by diseases and enemies, be deprived of
position, subjected to much grief and will roam out of agony.
15. MOON-MARS-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
If these five planets are together, one will be a messenger, a dunce, a neuter, will possess dirty
habits, be very unfortunate, deformed and bereft of money.
16. SUN-MARS-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
Should there be a conjunction of these five planets, at birth, one will be expert in dealing with
equipment and machinery related to water, minerals, mercury and such other chemicals and
will achieve some fame in these lines.
17. SUN-VENUS-SATURN-MERCURY-JUPITER YOGA.
One with these planets in conjunct ion will be learned in many Shastras, will help friends, be dear
to elders, virtuous and merciful.
18. MERCURY-MOON-JUPITER-MARS-VENUS YOGA.
Should these planets be in conjunction at birth, one will be humble, free from sickness, endowed
with learning, wealth, truth and happiness, be helpful to relatives and will have many friends.
19. MARS-SATURN-MERCURY-JUPITER-MOON YOGA.
One with the conjunction of these five planets will be night blind, penniless, dependent on others
for food, miserable and will bring discredit to his relatives.
20. MERCURY-MOON-MARS-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
with these planets in conjunction, one will have a number of enemies and friends as well, be
helpful to others, wicked and highly regarded.
21. MOON-MERCURY-VENUS-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
If these planets are together at birth in a nativity, the subject will be a king’s minister, be equal to
a king, chief of the people and be worshipped by all people.

-- 52 of 203 --

53
22. MARS-JUPITER-MERCURY-VENUS-SATURN YOGA.
If these five planets be conjunct, the native will be good-hearted, rash (considered to be one of
the 33 subordinate feelings), dear to king, free from grief, addicted to excessive sleep and be
indigent.
Thus ends the 18th Ch., entitled Effects of five planets in conjunction, In Kalyana Varmas
Saravali.
Chapter 19.
Effects of 6 Planets in Conjunction
1. MERCURY-MOON-SUN-MARS-JUPITER-VENUS YOGA.
If these six planets join together, the native will be learned, virtuous, will have an emaciated body,
be acquainted with many languages and will have distinguished knowledge.
2. SUN-MOON-MARS-MERCURY-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA. Should these planets be together,
the native will be liberal, helpful to others, fickle minded, of Sattvik disposition and will gratify
his sexual desires in lonely places.
3. MERCURY-MOON-SUN-MARS-SATURN-VENUS YOGA. Should these six planets join in one
House, the native will be a thief, be addicted to others women, subjected to leprosy,
discarded by his own men, be a dunce, deprived of position and be issueless.
4. VENUS-MOON-SUN-MARS-JUPITER-SATURN YOGA.
If these six planets are together, the native will be mean, will do others jobs, suffer from
tuberculosis, breathing and sneezing troubles (i.e. sneezing etc.) and will be blamed by his
relatives.
5. SUN-MOON-MERCURY-JUPITER-VENUS-SATURN YOGA. One with this six-planetary
conjunction will be a kings minister, fortunate, patient and will suffer from grief. He will have
no wife and wealth.
6. MERCURY-MARS-SATURN-JUPITER-VENUS-SUN YOGA. If the said six planets are
together the subject will alw ays wander in shrines, be deprived of issues and wealth and will
live in forests and hills.
7.MARS-SATURN-VENUS-MOON-MERCURY-JUPITER YOGA.
One with these six planets will be pure at all times, valorous, will seek sexual union with many
women, be dear to king, be a minister and be endowed with wealth, issues and happiness.

-- 53 of 203 --

54
8. PLANETARY CONJUNCTIONS.
If 5, or 6 planets join at birth, normally such natives will be penniless, subjected to grief and be
dull-witted. Even aspects among such planets will yield similar results according to Kandalas.
Thus ends the 19th Ch., entitled Effects of six planet combinations in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 20.
Combinations For Renunciation
1. Various sages have explained widely the combinations of four, or more planets producing an
ascetic. I now explain below such of the Yogas.
2. One born with the conjunction of the Sun, the Moon, Venus, Jupiter and Mars; or the
Luminaries, Mercury and Mars; or the Sun, Mars, Saturn, Mercury and Venus becomes an
ascetic.
3. The native having the combination of Mars, the Luminaries (i.e. the Sun and the Moon),
Mercury and Jupiter; or the Luminaries, Saturn and Mercury; or the Luminaries, Mars and
Saturn takes to renunciation and become a mendicant.
4. The Sun, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury-being together, or Mars, the Sun, Mercury and Jupiter
joining denotes a mendicant.
5. Should Venus, the Sun, Mars and Saturn; or Jupiter, Mars, the Sun and Saturn; or Mars, the
Moon, Jupiter and Saturn with strength be in conjunction at birth, native takes to asceticism.
6. One will be initiated into a religious vow, if anyone of the following group of planets be found
together at birth: d) Mars. Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter; 2) Mars, Saturn Mercury, the Sun and
Venus; 3) the Luminaries, Mars Saturn and Venus.
7. One becomes a mendicant to live in forests and hilly areas, if the planets group themselves in
conjunction at birth, as under: 1) Venus, Mars, Saturn, Jupiter and the Sun; 2) Mars, the
Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and Saturn; 3) Venus, Mercury, Saturn, the Moon and Mars.
8. The native will become a sage, giving up (even) his food and be honoured by the people, if the
heavenly bodies form conjunction, as under: 1) The Moon, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter and the
Sun; 2) The Luminaries, Mercury, Venus and Mars.
9. The native will be initiated into a religious vow, if 1) the Luminaries, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and
Saturn, or 2) The Moon, Mars, Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter and the Sun, or 3) Mars, the
Luminaries, Saturn, Venus and Mercury, join together at birth.

-- 54 of 203 --

55
10. A famous sage is indicated by the combination of 1) the Luminaries, Jupiter, Saturn and
Venus, or 2) Venus, the Luminaries, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury.
11. Note the conjunction of the following planets: 1) Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and
the Sun. 2) Venus, the Luminaries, Saturn, Jupiter and Mercury. It indicates an ascetic.
12. If conjunction is found among the planetary group, viz. 1) the Luminaries, Jupiter and Saturn;
2) Saturn, the Luminaries and Venus; 3) Sun, Mercury, Mars and Jupiter, the native will
become an ascetic living on roots and fruits.
13. The native will become an ascetic with bark garments, if Mars, the Sun, Mercury and Venus
are found together at birth. The same effect follows the conjunction of Mars, the Moon,
Jupiter and Mercury.
14. A patient ascetic (awaiting the blessing of the Supreme) is indicated by either the combination
of the Moon, Mercury, Mars and Saturn, or of Mercury, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.
15. A sage living only by eating fruits is denoted by the combination of the Luminaries, Venus and
Mercury; or Mars, Mercury, Venus and Saturn; or Saturn, the Moon, Jupiter and Venus.
16. An ascetic, who will be highly honourable, living in forests, is denoted by each of the under
mentioned planetary conjunctions: 1) The Sun, Mars, the Moon and Venus, 2) the
Luminaries, Mars and Mercury, 3) Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and the Sun, 4) Venus, Jupiter, the
Moon and Mars.
17. Find the planets together in individual groups, as under 1) Venus, Moon, Mars, Jupiter and
Saturn, 2) the Moon, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter and Venus, 3) The Luminaries, Mars, Mercury
and Jupiter. The result is, that the ascetic will be sorrowful (Unsuccessful mendicant).
18. Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury with strength, or Saturn, the Sun, Mercury, the
Moon and Mars with strength in conjunction produce one with clotted hair and bark-garments.
19. The Luminaries, Mercury, Mars and Venus, or the Luminaries, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, if be
together, the native certainly will become an ascetic.
20. If the Sun denotes asceticism (i.e. being the strongest in the Yoga), there will only be faith in
the religious order, while competence (to fulfil the order) will lack. If the planet, contributing to
such order is overpowered by another planet (i.e. in eclipse, planetary war etc.) the native will
give up the order after being initiated into it. Should many planets denote such an order, there
may be many kinds of religious orders, but these will depend on the order of the planet.
21. If the planet indicating asceticism is combust in the Sun, or is aspected by another heavenly
body, the native will only have an earnest desire to be initiated into the religious order, but will
not attain fruition of his aim. So say Yavanas.
22. The native will attain religious order, if the Moon, posited in a decanate of Saturn, is aspected
by Mars and Saturn. The same effect is produced, if the Moon occupies the Navansa of
Aries/Scorpio in aspect to Saturn.

-- 55 of 203 --

56
23. If the Lord of the Moon Sign receives the sole aspect of Saturn (i.e. unaspected by others
than Saturn), one will enter religious order. Even in this context, the earlier Yogas, if present
will only prevail.
24. If the Lord of the Moon Sign, bright with rays, lends his aspect to Saturn, while Saturn is in an
Angle, the native will lose his fortunes only to enter into a religious order.
25. If one among the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter be devoid of strength and occupy the Ascendant,
or the 10th, or the 12th in aspect to strong Saturn, the native will become distressed ascetic.
26. Should the Moon with strength be in the 10th, falling in a benefics Navansa, while others
occupy their exaltation marks and all being in aspect to strong Saturn, the native will become
the Lord of the earth to only become an ascetic.
27. If waxing Moon, with superior strength, aspects the Ascendant Lord, the latter being bereft of
strength and being alone (in that Rasi), the native will be devoid of wealth and own men, be
miserable, sorrowful, will take to asceticism and will obtain his food with great inconvenience.
28. One will become a religious mendicant, if Saturn occupying a benefics Navansa aspects
others including the Moon. The Moon in this case should only be in Aquarius Navansa.
29. If the Lord of the Moon Sign aspects all the other planets, while these are all together in one
Rasi, the native will become an ascetic.
30. The Sun rules the ascetics of the following orders: Those, who worship the Fire God in
forests, or on river banks, those, who worship (the omnipotent) Sun-God, Elephant-faced
Ganesa and His benevolent mother Parvati, those, who recite the hymns of Gayatri (which
are very sacred), those, who are vowed to bathe in the sacred Ganges everyday and those,
who maintain (absolute) celibacy.
31. The religious order belonging to the Moon attracts the following various persons: Those
disciples, who smear their bodies with sacred ashes, those, who worship the Feet of Lord
Shiva, those, who are abandoned by the society, those, who are devoted to Bhagavati, those,
who give up company of others, those, who take to Soma Siddhanta and those, who carry
bowls in their hands (for begging alms).
32. The Buddhist monks, the tonsured, those, who wear white apparels, those, who beg wearing
good robes, those, who wear blood-red clothes and those, that have conquered their five
senses-all these mendicants are ruled by Mars.
33. Mercury denotes an alm-seeker, a conjurer, a snake poison curer and one, who eats the flesh
of a peacock.
34. The ascetics ruled by Jupiter are: those, who hold a single sceptre (or mace), those, who hold
three sceptres, those, who wear red coloured apparels, those, who are in the third stage of
their religious life, those, who pull on their lives with fruits and water (alone), those, who still
are attached to family ties, those, who maintain celibacy and those, who take to visiting
shrines etc.

-- 56 of 203 --

57
35. Venus rules the mendicants of Saivite and Vaishnavite sects.
36. Religious hypocrites, bare mendicants and the ascetics, who sit under shadowy trees in
forests are ruled by Saturn.
37. Should Raja Yogas be simultaneously present along with the above ascetic Yogas, all the evil
results are nullified and the native will become very virtuous, will be adorned by all the kings.
himself becoming a king and will take to religious order.
Thus ends the 20th Ch., entitled Combinations for Renunciation in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 21.
Nabhasa Yogas
1. NABHASA YOGAS.
Yavanas have explained 1800 kinds of Nabhasa Yogas, out of which I detail below 32.
2-4. KINDS OF NABHASA YOGA.
The following are the 32 Nabhasa Yogas Nau, Chatra, Koota, Chaapa, Sringataka, Vajra, Damini,
Pasa, Veena, Kamala, Musala, Vapi, Hala, Sara, Samudra, Chakra, Maala. Sarpa, Ardha
Chandra, Yava, Kedara, Gada, Pakshi, Yupa, Yuga, Sakata, Soola, Danda, Rajju, Sakthi,
Nala and Gola. The Asraya Yogas, viz. Musala, Rajju and Nala are dealt with by Acharya
Manitha.
5-6. Gola, Yuga, Soola, Pasa, Veena (Vallaki), Kedara and Damini arc the seven Sankhya
Yogas. The two Dala Yogas viz. Sarpa (Bhujanga) and Mala are explained by Parasara
Maharishi. Savitracharya dealt with remaining 20 Yogas.
7. One born with an Asraya will obtain the good effects, viz., happiness, advantages and
qualities, provided there is no other kind of (Nabhasa) Yoga present in the horoscope. If other
(Nabhasa) Yoga is present in addition to an Asraya Yoga, then the effects of Asraya Yoga do
not come to pass, but the other (Nabhasa) Yoga prevails.
8-10. EFFECT OF AKRITI, SANKHYA AND DALA YOGAS.
One born in Akriti Yoga will be satisfied with his own fortunes, will earn through a king, be dear to
king and be famous. Should there be a Sankhya Yoga, the native will be happy only with
others wealth, will live only through others help and be always not peaceful. A native with
Dala Yoga will sometimes enjoy his own fortune, yet sometimes that of others, will pick up the
fruits thrown on the ground by others, be sometimes happy and sometimes sorrowful.
11. NAUKA, KOOTA, CHATRA AND CHAPA YOGAS.
If the seven planets occupy continuous Houses starting from the Ascendant and the other three
Angles, Yogas called Nauka, Koota, Chatra and Chapa are, respectively, formed.

-- 57 of 203 --

58
12. YUPA, SARA, SAKTHI AND DANDA YOGAS.
If the seven planets occupy for continuous Houses counted from the Ascendant and its Angles,
the resultant Yogas are known, as Yupa, Sara (or Ishu-arrow), Sakthi and Danda,
respectively.
13. ARDHA CHANDRA AND GADA YOGAS.
If the seven planets occupy continuously seven Houses commencing from a House, which is not
angular to the Ascendant, the Yoga produced is known, as Ardha Chandra (Ardha Sasi)
Yoga. Gada Yoga forms, when all the seven planets occupy two successive Angles from the
Ascendant.
14. VAJRA, YAVA, PADMA AND VAPI YOGAS.
If benefics occupy the Lagna and 7th, while malefics are in the 4th and 10th Vajra Yoga is formed.
Conversely, if malef ics are in the Lagna and 7th, while 4th and 10th are occupied by benefics,
Yava Yoga is produced. If all the planets are disposed in four kendras, Padma (Kamala)
Yoga is formed. Should the seven planets be relegated either to Apoklima Houses (3, 6, 9
and 12th), or to Panapharas (2, 5, 8 and 11 Houses), Vapi Yoga is formed.
15. SAKATA, VIHAGA, HALA AND SRINGATAKA YOGAS.
If all planets occupy only the Ascendant and the 7th House, Sakata Yoga is formed. Similar
participation of all the planets in the 4th and 10th Houses constitutes Vihaga (Pakshi) Yoga.
Should all the planets be in mutual Trines, avoiding the Ascendant, Hala Yoga is formed. All
planets relegated only to the Ascendant and its Trines give rise to Sringataka Yoga.
16. CHAKRA AND SAMUDRA YOGAS.
Should all the planets occupy alternative Rasis commencing from the Lagna, Chakra Yoga is
formed. If these occupy alternative Rasis from the 2nd onwards, Samudra Yoga is formed.
17. Thus, I have explained the twenty different Akriti Yogas. Now, I explain the Asraya Yogas, as
per the schools of thought of senior Garga etc.
18. ASRAYA AND DALA YOGAS.
Should all the planets be in Dual Rasis, Nala Yoga is formed. Similarly, if these are in Fixed
Rasis, Musala Yoga takes place and in Movable Rasis Rajju Yoga is formed. All Angles
occupied exclusively by benefics cause Maala Yoga, while malefics in all Angles produce
Sarpa Yoga. These two are Dala Yogas.
19. SANKHYA YOGAS.
If all the seven planets occupy one Rasi, Gola Yoga is formed. Similarly in 2 Rasis-Yuga Yoga, In
3 Rasis-Sula Yoga, in 4 Rasis-Kedara Yoga, in 5 Rasis-Pasa Yoga, in 6 Rasis-Damini and in
7 Rasis-Veena (Vallaki) Yoga.

-- 58 of 203 --

59
20-21. EFFECTS OF NABHASA YOGAS. NAU YOGA.
The natives livelihood will be through water; he will have many gains, will be very famous, be
pleased, mean, strong and stingy. This and other Yogas are effective at all times independent
of Dasas.
22. KOOTA YOGA.
The native with Koota Yoga will be a liar, be crafty, be a jailer, be poor, wicked, cruel and will
always live in hills and fortresses.
23. CHHATRA YOGA.
The native with Chhatra Yoga will help his own men, be kind, liberal, dear to king, very intelligent
and will enjoy happiness in boyhood and at the end.
24. CHAPA YOGA. (KARMUKA YOGA).
The native with Chapa Yoga will be a liar, jailer, thief and will live in forests. He will not have
wealth in the middle of his life.
25. ARDHA CHANDRA YOGA.
One born with Ardha Chandra Yoga will be fortunate, be an Army chief, be brilliant bodied, dear
to king and strong. He will possess gems, gold and ornaments.
26. VAJRA YOGA.
One born with Vajra Yoga will be happy at the beginning and end of his life, bold, beautiful, free
from sickness, unfortunate and be inimical to his own people.
27. YAVA YOGA
One born with Yava Yoga will observe fasts and other religious rules, be intent on doing
auspicious acts, be happy in the middle of life, be liberal and will have lasting wealth.
28. KAMALA YOGA.
One born with Kamala Yoga will be highly famous, very virtuous, assuredly long living, very rich,
very bright in appearance and will be the Lord of the earth.
29. VAPI YOGA.
One born with Vapi Yoga will be skillful in amassing wealth, will enjoy lasting riches and
happiness, be beautiful and will be endowed with happiness from sons.
30. SAKATA YOGA.
One born with Sakata Yoga will be troubled by diseases, will have a bad wife, will be a dunce, will
live by pulling carts, will be poor and be without relatives and friends.
31. VIHAGA YOGA. (PAKSHI YOGA).
The native with this Yoga will be intent on wandering, will have mean habits, will be a messenger,
will live through sexual dealings, shameless and fond of quarrels.
32. GADA YOGA.
One born with this Yoga, will always care for honour and money, will perform yagnas etc., will be
expert in Sastras and music and will be endowed with money, gold, jewels and wealth.

-- 59 of 203 --

60
33. SRINGATAKA YOGA.
One born with this Yoga will be fond of quarrels, be a warrior, be happy, dear to king, will have a
fortunate wife, be rich and will hate the fair sex.
34. HALA YOGA.
The native of this Yoga will eat in plenty, will be indigent, will have agricultural profession, will be
subjected to grief, be emotional, be forsaken by relatives and friends and will be a servant.
35. CHAKRA YOGA.
One born in this Yoga will be a king at whose feet will be the heads of the other prostrating kings
adoring diamond-studded crowns. (That is, the subordinate kings, wearing diamond-studded
crowns will honour a Chakra Yoga native, who will be the chief of such kings)
36. SAMUDRA YOGA.
Should a person be born under this Yoga, he will have abundant wealth and precious stones, will
be a king, be endowed with pleasures, be dear to people, will have steady mind and be
truthful in disposition (Sattvavanta).
37. YUPA YOGA.
The native with this Yoga will have self-protection, be charitable, be endowed with riches and
happiness and will observe religious fasting and vows. He will be a distinguished person.
38. SARA YOGA.
The native with sara Yoga will manufacture arrows (arms etc. in modern context), will catch hold
of thieves (for example, be a police officer), will live in forests to hunt animals, will be equal to
a mad person, will torture and be fond of mean handiworks.
39. SAKTI YOGA.
One born with this Yoga will be devoid of wealth, deformed, subjected to grief, mean, lazy short-
lived, expert in war and be beautiful.
40. DANDA YOGA.
The native with this Yoga will lose his wife and sons, will be poor, discarded by all people, be out
of the men of his circle, be grieved, mean and will be servant.
41. MAALA YOGA.
One born with maala Yoga will always be happy, be endowed with conveyances, robes, wealth
and pleasures, splendourous and will have plurality of wives.
42. SARPA YOGA.
The native born under this Yoga will be crooked in disposition, pitiless, always be a subject of
grief, poor and will live in others House and eat their food.
43. RAJJU YOGA.
The subject with this Yoga will be fond of wandering, attractive in appearance, will earn money in
foreign countries, be cruel and mischievously disposed.

-- 60 of 203 --

61
44. MUSALA YOGA.
One born under this Yoga will be endowed with honour, wealth and wisdom, be attached to his
duty, be liked by king, be famous. steady-minded and bold.
45. NALA YOGA.
One born with nala Yoga will have uneven physique (i.e. some limbs long and some short), will
gather money, be skillful, be helpful to his relatives and be attractive in appearance.
46. GOLA YOGA.
One born in this Yoga will be indigent, indolent, devoid of learning and honour, dirty and always
grieved.
47. YUGA YOGA.
One born with this Yoga will be a religious hypocrite, be bereft of wealth, forsaken by people and
devoid of sons, honour and virtues.
48. SULA YOGA.
The native with sula Yoga will be harsh, indolent, poor, torturous, become a prohibited person,
bold, successful in war and fearful.
49. KEDARA YOGA.
One born under this Yoga will be useful to many, will have agricultural profession, be truthfully
disposed, fickle minded and wealthy.
50. PASA YOGA.
One born with pasa Yoga will be bonded, be attached to work, worldly in disposition, will talk too
much, will not have good qualities and will have many servants.
51. DAMINI YOGA.
One born with this Yoga will be helpful, will have cattle, be Lord of money, be foolish, will have
many sons and jewels, be bold and learned.
52. VEENA YOGA.
One born with this combination will have friends, be eloquent, interested in Sastras, musical
instruments and singing. He will be happy, will have many servants and be famous.
Thus ends the 21st Ch., entitled Nabhasa Yogas in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 22.
Effects of the Sun
1. The effects of the planets and the zodiacal Signs accrue to all and at all times. I now attempt to
explain these according to the teachings of the rest of the preceptors.

-- 61 of 203 --

62
2-3. THE SUN IN ARIES.
One, who has the Sun in Aries will comment on the meanings of Shastras, be famous in arts,
fond of war, fierce, attached to his duty, fond of roaming, will have strong bones, be good in
deeds, will do valorous acts, will be subjected to bilious and bloody disorders, be
splendourous and strong. The native will also become a king.
4-9. SUN IN A SIGN OF MARS IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should the Sun be in a Sign of Mars
(i.e. either in Aries, or in Scorpio) and be aspected by the Moon, the native will be interested
in giving away gifts, will have many servants, be charming, be dear to fair sex and will have a
soft physique.
Should the Sun be in a Sign of Mars and be aspected by Mars, the native will display his courage
in battle, be cruel, will possess eyes, hands and legs of blood-red colour, be splendourous
and strong.
Should the Sun be in a Sign of Mars and be aspected by Mercury, the subject will be a servant,
will do others jobs, will not have much wealth, be devoid of strength, be subjected to much
grief and will possess a dirty body.
Should the Sun be in a Sign of Mars and Jupiter aspects the said Sun, the native will have plenty
of money, will donate, be a kings minister, a judge and a supreme person.
If Venus aspects the Sun posited in a House of Mars, the native will be the husband of a bad
woman, will have many enemies, but few relatives (or not well-placed relatives), be poor and
will suffer from leprosy.
In case Saturn aspects the Sun in a Sign of Mars, the native will be subjected to grief on account
of physical ailments, will have intense passion in his undertaking, be dull-witted and a dunce.
10-11. The position of the Sun in the Sign Taurus
indicates, that the native will have troubles from disease of face and eyes, will endure difficulties,
will have an emaciated body, will not have many sons, will be beautiful (also means fortunate,
nice, handsome etc.), will possess decorum, be wise, will hate barren (or confined) women,
be endowed with eatables, garlands, robes and scents, will have knowledge of singing,
playing musical instruments and dancing and will face risk from water.
12-17. SUN IN A SIGN OF VENUS IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. One, who has the Sun in a Rasi of
Venus aspected by the Moon will be addicted to prostitutes, will be soft spoken, will have
many women, as dependents and will derive livelihood through water.
If Mars is aspecting the Sun in a Sign of Venus, the subject will be brave, fond of battle, bright in
appearance, will earn wealth and fame out of his valour and will be deformed.
Should it be Mercury, that aspects the Sun in a Sign of Venus, one will be skilful in drawing,
writing, poetry, authorship, singing etc. and will possess a good physique.

-- 62 of 203 --

63
If Jupiter should lend his aspect to the Sun in Libra, or Taurus, the subject will have many foes
and friends, be a kings minister, will have beautiful eyes, be splendourous and will be a
pleased ruler.
When Venus aspects the Sun in Libra, or Taurus, one will be a king, or a kings minister, be
endowed with wife, wealth and pleasure galore, be wise and timid.
Saturn aspecting the Sun in fall, or in Taurus denotes, that the native will be mean, indolent, will
cohabit with aged women, will be wicked and will be troubled by diseases.
18-19. One who has the Sun in Gemini
will be a scholar, be sweet in speech, affectionate (particularly to ones offspring), will have good
conduct, be expert in profane knowledge and also in Sastras, be exceedingly affluent, liberal,
skillful, be an astrologer, be mediocre in appearance, will have two mothers, be fortunate and
modest.
20-25. SUN IN GEMINI IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
Should the Sun be in Gemini, or Virgo be aspected by the Moon, the native will be put to troubles
by enemies and relatives, will be distressed by visits to foreign countries. and will in general
be wailing.
The Sun in a House of Mercury and in aspect to Mars denotes, that the subject will have fear
from enemies, will be encountered by quarrels, will be grieved on account of loss in a war, be
poor and bashful.
Should Mercury aspect the Sun posited in Gemini, or Virgo, the subject will have a history akin to
that of a king, will be famous, be endowed with relatives, free from enemies, but will
encounter eye diseases.
Jupiter aspecting the Sun in a Sign of Mercury foretells, that the native will have knowledge of
many Shastras, be a kings messenger (or repr esentative), will go to foreign countries, be
fierce and be always bewildered.
If Venus aspects the Sun, posited in Sign of Mercury, the native will be endowed with money, wife
and sons, will make less friends, be free from sickness, be happy and fickle minded.
Should Saturn aspect the Sun in Gemini, or Virgo, the native will have many servants, be anxious
(as for an absent lover), will maintain many relatives, will remain delighted and will be crafty.
26-27. The Sun in Cancer
indicates, that the native will not be steady in mind in respect of his undertakings, will be famous
by virtue of his royal qualities, will hate his own men, be unfortunate in respect of wife (have
an ugly wife), will be good-looking himself, be troubled due to imbalances of phlegm and bile,
be distressed on account of labour (hard work), will like intoxicants, follow virtuous principles,
be honourable, will be eloquent, will be a geographer and a scientist in the matter of
atmosphere/space, will be very steady and will hate people from paternal side.

-- 63 of 203 --

64
28-33. ASPECTS TO SUN IN CANCER.
If the Sun in Cancer is aspected by the Moon, the person will be a king, or equal to a king, will
become rich by business through water and be cruel.
Should Mars throw his aspect on the Sun in Cancer, one will contract pulmonary consumption
and fistula in the anus, or pudendum, be dejected on account of his relatives and be a
slanderer.
If Mercury aspects the Sun in Cancer, the native will be famous for his learning and honour, be
dear to the king, skilful and will destroy enemies.
Should Jupiter throw his aspect in Cancer occupied by the Sun, the native will be pre-eminent, a
king, a minister, or an Army chief, be very famous and learned in arts.
If Venus aspects the Sun in Cancer, the native will subordinate his wife (or women), will have
money through his wife, be helpful to others, fierce in battle and will speak sweetly.
Saturns aspect on the Sun in Cancer, denotes, that the person will suffer from phlegmatic and
windy disorders, be wicked and be a tale-bearer.
34-35. If the Sun occupies Leo,
the native will destroy his enemies, be given to anger, will perform notable acts, will wander in
forests, hills and fortresses, be enthusiastic, valorous, bright in appearance, will eat meat,
flesh etc. and will be formidable. He will be restive, strong in a lasting measure, talkative, be a
king, be plentiful in wealth and famous.
36-41. ASPECTS TO THE SUN IN LEO.
If the Sun occupying Leo is aspected by the Moon, the native will be a scholar, will have a good
wife, will suffer from phlegmatic disorders and will be dear to king.
If Mars aspects the Sun in Leo, the native will be interested in others wives, be courageous,
valorous, revolutionary, formidable and chief.
If Mercury aspects the Sun in Leo, the person will be a scholar, a writer (or an exponent), a
gambler, be wandering-natured, mean and be endowed with great strength.
If the Sun in Leo is aspected by Jupiter, the person will construct temples, gardens and tanks; will
have predominant strength, will like loneliness and be highly intelligent.
Venus aspecting the Sun in Leo will make one earn bad name, infamous. Such a person will be
troubled by leprosy, be unkind and shameless.
Should Saturn aspect the Sun in Leo, the person will be skilful in creating obstacles, will be a
eunuch and will cause grief to others.
42-43. Should the Sun be in Virgo at birth, the person will possess a physique akin to that of a
female, be a scholar, be weak, be an expert writer, be learned and will render service to
Gods and elders. He will be expert in repairs of driven vehicles, will be skillful in Vedas,
songs and playing instruments and will speak softly and kindly.

-- 64 of 203 --

65
44-45. If the Sun is in Libra
at birth, the native will face frustration, destruction and heavy expenditure, will be intent on living
in foreign places (out of distress), be wicked, mean, be devoid of affection, will live by selling
gold and other metals, be jealous, fond of doing others jobs, will co-habit with others wives,
be dirty, will incur royal contempt and be shameless.
46-47. The native with the Sun in Scorpio will have an incombatible lust for war, be away from
Vedic (religious) path, be a liar, a dunce, will have a base, wicked wife (can also mean loss of
wife), be cruel and be attached to mean women. He will be irascible, will follow bad course,
be a miser, be fond of promoting quarrels, be troubled by weapons, fire and poison and be
unfortunate in respect of parents.
48-49. If the Sun at birth is in Sagittarius, one will be endowed with wealth, be dear to king,
learned, will respect Gods and Brahmins, be skillful in rendering training in use of weapons
and arrows and breeding of elephants, be fit to deal with, be honourable, be always peaceful,
be rich, will possess a broad and beautiful physique, be helpful to relatives and be energetic.
50-55. SUN IN SAGITTARIUS/PISCES AND ASPECTED BY OTHERS.
Should the Sun at birth be in a Rasi of Jupiter and be aspected by the Moon, the native will be
endowed with eloquent speech, wisdom, wealth and sons. He will be equal to a king and be
devoid of misery. He will also possess a pleasing body.
Should Mars lend aspect to the Sun in a Rasi of Jupiter, the subject will earn fame through battle,
be endowed with clarity of speech, money and happiness and be short-tempered.
Mercury aspecting the said Sun denotes, that the native will possess sweet speech and will have
knowledge of writing, literature, arts, assembly, Journey and minerals.
If Jupiter aspects the Sun in Pisces/Sagittarius, the person will move in royal palaces, or be a
king himself, will possess elephants, horses and wealth and be ever after learning.
Should Venus aspect the Sun in Jupiters House, one will enjoy women of superior class, be
endowed with scents and garlands and be peaceful.
If Saturn aspects the Sun in Pisces, or Sagittarius, the native will be unclean, will eat others food,
will join bad men and will breed animals.
56-57. One who has the Sun in Capricorn will be base, interested in bad women, be greedy, will
advance with mean jobs, be endowed with various deeds, be timid, devoid of relatives, fickle-
minded, fond of wandering, weak, will lose everything due to conflicts with his relatives and
will be a voracious eater.
58-63. SUN IN CAPRICORN/AQUARIUS, ASPECTED BY OTHERS.
If the Moon aspects the Sun in a Rasi of Saturn, the native will be highly cunning in disposition
and will lose his wealth and happiness on account of his befriending females.

-- 65 of 203 --

66
Mars aspecting the Sun in Capricorn, or Aquarius denotes, that the native will be troubled by
diseases and enemies, will be wounded by weapons on account of quarrelling with others
and be deformed.
If Mercury aspects the Sun in Capricorn, or Aquarius, the person will be brave, will have a
eunuchs nature, will steal others wealth and will have all limbs devoid of strength.
Should Jupiter aspect the Sun in Capricorn, or Aquarius, one will undertake to do auspicious
deeds, be wise, will patronize all, widely famous and intelligent.
If Venus aspects the Sun in a Rasi of Saturn, the native will deal with conch, coral and ruby, will
derive abundant wealth through prostitutes and females and be happy.
If Saturn aspects the Sun posited in Capricorn, or Aquarius, the person will destroy his enemies
and will prosper due to royal honours.
64-65. SUN IN AQUARIUS.
If the Sun is in Aquarius at birth, one will suffer from heart diseases, will have enormous strength
(courage), be very short-tempered, be fortunate through other housewives, be hated by the
learned, be firm in his activities, be miserable, will have little wealth, be fraudulent, be not firm
in friendship, will have dirty body and be a miser.
66-67. If the Sun is in Pisces
at birth, one will be friendly, will have tendency to amass, be fond of women and happy, be
learned, will destroy many enemies and be wealthy and rich. He will be endowed with wife,
good sons and servants, will have wealth on account of transactions via sea/river, be an
eloquent speaker, but a liar, will suffer from diseases of the private parts and will have many
a co-born.
Thus ends the 22nd Ch. entitled Effects of the Sun in Various Rasis in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 23.
Effects of Moon in Various Rasis
1. THE MOON IN ARIES.
Should the Moon be in Aries, the native will have a golden coloured body, will be endowed with
lasting wealth, be devoid of co-born, be valorous, self-respected, auspicious, prosperous,
libidinous, will have weak legs, ugly nails and little hair, be fickle-minded, will consider
honour, as wealth, will possess hands and legs, like the lotus, (i.e. these will be lotus-red),

-- 66 of 203 --

67
will have more sons, round eyes, be friendly, be afraid of getting into watery places, like river,
well etc.), will have wounds on the head and be won over by females.
2-7. THE MOON IN ARIES IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If the Moon is in Aries at birth and be in aspect to the Sun, the native will be quite irascible, be
honoured by the king, be soft, be valorous and fond of war.
If the Moon in Aries is aspected by Mars, the person will suffer from diseases of eyes and teeth,
will have wounds caused by arrows (or horse/cow etc.) and will suffer windy diseases and
urinary disorders.
Should Mercury aspect the Moon in Aries, the native will teach various disciplines, will possess
good speech, will achieve his desires, be a great poet and be widely famous.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Ar ies, the person will be endowed with servants and abundant
riches and be a king, or a kings minister.
Venus aspecting the Moon in Aries denotes, that the subject will be lucky, be endowed with sons
and wealth, will own (i.e. marry) a supreme lady and costly ornaments and will not eat much.
The Moon in Aries aspected by Saturn indicates, that the native will be jealous, miserable to a
great extent, be very poor, dirty and untruthful.
8. If the Moon be in Taurus at birth, the native will be large-hearted, highly charitable, short-
haired, libidinous, famous, brilliant, will have (more) daughters, will possess eyes resembling
that of a bull, be in a position to differentiate between good and bad, be happy during middle
and concluding parts of his life, will have strong waist, feet, shoulders, face etc., will have
(some) identity on the side and back of the body, will walk beautifully and be endowed with
forbearance.
9-14. Should the Moon be in Taurus and be in aspect to the Sun, the native will be a farmer, be
very industrious, be very rich with servants and quadrupeds and will lend money on usury.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Taurus, the subject will be highly libidinous, will lose his wife and
friends on account of another lady, will steal the heart of the fair sex and will prove adverse
for the mother.
Should the said Moon be in aspect to Mercury, the native will be highly learned, will know the
code of speech, be of pleasing disposition, be dear to everyone and will uncomparably be of
good qualities.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Taurus, the native will have long living wife and children and lasting
wealth, be respectfully disposed to his parents, be virtuous and very famous.
Should Venus aspect the Moon in Taurus, one will be endowed with ornaments, conveyances
and houses and will possess comforts of sleeping and sitting, scents, robes, garlands etc.
If it is Saturn, that aspects the Moon in Taurus, one will be devoid of wealth, be inauspicious for
mother and wife and will be endowed with sons, friends and relatives.

-- 67 of 203 --

68
15. Should the Moon be in the first half of Taurus, the mother of the native is not long-lived.
Similarly the father is short-lived, if the Moon occupies the second half of Taurus.
16. If the Moon is in Gemini at birth, one will have prominent nose and dark eyes, will be skillful in
the art of love, poetry etc., will enjoy sexual pleasures, will have lines of fish in the palm, will
be fond of worldly enjoyments, will be sinewy, be very intelligent, splendourous, be endowed
with happiness, jocular disposition and eloquent speech, be won over by the females, will
have a long body, will befriend neuters and will have two mothers.
17-22. If the Moon is in Gemini at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be quite
learned, be splendourous, very beautiful, be charitable, be very miserable and be not rich.
If Mars lends aspect to the Moon in Gemini, the person will be very valorous, very learned, be
endowed with happiness, conveyances, wealth and beauty. This is certain.
The Moon in Gemini aspected by Mercury makes one skillful in producing money, always
successful and inviolable king.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Gemini, one will be a teacher of Shastras, be famous, truthful, very
beautiful, honourable and be an eloquent speaker.
If Venus aspects the Moon in Gemini, the person will be endowed with the company of supreme
females, garlands, robes, conveyances, ornaments and jewels and will be sportive.
Should Saturn aspect the Moon in Gemini, the subject will be devoid of relatives, wife, happiness
and wealth and will be inimical to the public.
23. If the Moon is in Cancer at birth, the native will be fortunate, valorous, be endowed with
residence, friends, journeys and astrological knowledge, be sensuous, grateful, be a minister,
be truthful, will live abroad, be passionate, hairy-bodied, fond of water and flowers, interested
in construction of houses, wells etc. and will have a prominent neck.
24-29. THE MOON IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should the Moon be in her House at
birth and be aspected by the Sun, the native will be in the employ of king, be not rich, be a
letter-bearer and will protect forts (i.e. will be a security officer in royal service).
If the Moon in Cancer is aspected by Mars, the subject will be valorous, be deformed, will prove
ominous to his mother and be skilful in his jobs.
Should Mercury lend his aspect to the Moon in Cancer, he will be spirited in disposition, be
endowed with political wisdom, wealth, wife and sons, will be a kings minister and be happy.
Jupiter aspecting the Moon in her own House indicates, that the person will be a king, be
endowed with royal qualities, be happy, will have a good wife, will behave well, be modest
and valorous.
If Venus aspects the Moon in Cancer, the subject will be endowed with money, gold, wife, robes
and jewels, be head of prostitutes and be splendourous.
Should Saturn aspect the Cancer -posited Moon, he will be of wandering disposition, be
miserable, very poor, be a liar, a sinner and be mean.

-- 68 of 203 --

69
30. If the Moon is in Leo, one will have sturdy bones, sparse hair, wide face, small and yellowish
eyes, will hate women, will suffer from hunger and thirst, will incur stomach disorders and
tooth-decay, will eat flesh, be charitable, harsh, will have few sons, will seek sexual union in
forests and hills, be respectfully disposed to his mother, will have broad chest, be valorous,
dutiful and will have majestic looks.
31-36. Should the Moon be in Leo in aspect to the Sun, the native will be equal to a king, will
have excellent qualities and majestic voice, will be valorous, be fond of intoxicants and be
widely famous.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Leo he will be an Army chief, will have excellent wife, sons, wealth
and conveyances and be superior among people.
Should Mercury aspect the Moon in Leo one will be endowed with the characteristics of a female
and also the grace akin to that of a female, will be in the custody of females, will serve
females and will enjoy money, happiness and pleasures.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Leo, one will be excellent among his caste-men, be wide-famed,
highly virtuous and will equal a king.
Should Venus aspect the Moon in Leo, one will possess a wife, wealth and high knowledge, be
sickly disposed, will be a females servant and be skilful in sexual union.
If the Moon in Leo is aspected by Saturn, the person will be an agriculturist, be not wealthy, be a
liar, will protect forts, be devoid of happiness from wife and be mean.
37. If the Moon occupies Virgo at birth, one will be addicted to women, will have long hands,
attractive body and face, beautiful teeth, eyes and ears, be learned, be a religious preceptor
(teaching Vedas etc.), be an eloquent speaker, be truthful and pure, valorous, be kind to
living beings, be interested in others affairs, be of forgiving disposition, be fortunate, will have
more daughters, but not many sons.
38-43. If the Moon occupies Virgo at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be in charge
of royal wealth, be famous, will keep up his word and perform distinguished acts.
If Mars aspects the Moon posited in Virgo, the subject will be skilful in mechanical, or fine arts (of
64 kinds), be famous, affluent, disciplined, courageous and will be inauspicious for mother.
Should it be Mercury, that lends aspect to the Moon in Virgo, the native will be expert in astrology
and literature, be successful in disputes/quarrels and be highly skilful to a surprising extent.
Jupiter aspecting the Moon in Virgo indicates, that the native will be supreme among his relatives,
be happy, will carry out royal duties, will keep up his word and will be endowed with wealth.
If Venus aspects the Moon in Virgo, the person will have many wives, be endowed with many
kinds of cosmetics, pleasures and wealth and will always be blessed with fortunes.
The Moon in Virgo aspected by Saturn indicates, that the native will not have firm memory, will
suffer from poverty, will not have happiness, will be bereft of mother, will be at the disposal of
women (or be controlled by them) and will derive wealth through females.

-- 69 of 203 --

70
44. If the Moon is posited in Libra at birth, the native will have elevated nose, broad eyes, will
have weak (not prominent) face and emaciated body, will have many wives, many bulls
(cattle) and abundant landed property, be valorous, will have testicles resembling that of an
ox, be skillful in work, will honour Gods and the wise, be endowed with various kinds of
wealth, will be conquered by females, will have an emaciated body (this is a repetition), will
donate corns, will not be firm in disposition and will be helpful to his relatives.
45-50. MOON IN LIBRA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If the Moon is in Libra and is aspected by the Sun, the person will be bereft of wealth, be
diseased, will wander here and there, be insulted, be bereft of enjoyment, sons and strength.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Libra, the person will be sharp, be a thief, be mean, adulterous, will
enjoy scents and garlands, be wise and will suffer from eye diseases.
If Mercury aspects the Moon in Libra, the subject will be skilful in arts, will have abundant riches
and grains, will be an auspicious speaker, be highly learned and be famous in his country.
Should Jupiter aspect the Moon in Libra, the person will be always worshipped and be skilful in
sales and purchases of gems etc.
If Venus lends his aspect to the Moon in Libra, one will be beautiful, be free from sickness,
fortunate, strong bodied, be learned and will have knowledge of many means.
Should Saturn aspect the Moon in Libra, the native will be very affluent, be sweet in speech, be
endowed with conveyances, be very much interested in sexual affairs, be devoid of
happiness and be favourable to his mother.
51. Should the Moon be in Scorpio at birth, one will be a miser, will have round (well grown)
thighs, coarse physique and nose, will be cruel in acts, be a thief, be sick in childhood, will
have spoiled chin and nails, but beautiful eyes, will be plentiful, industrious, skilful, fond of
others housewives, devoid of relatives, insane (or infatuated with passion), valorous, will lose
wealth due to royal wrath and will have a big abdomen and a big head.
52-57. MOON IN SCORPIO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If the Moon at birth is in Scorpio and aspected by the Sun, the native will hate people (i.e. will not
be friendly with others), be learned, wandering nature and rich, but be not happy.
Should Mars aspect the Moon in Scorpio, the native will have incomparable courage, be equal to
a king, be endowed with wealth, be valorous, unconquerable in battle and be a voracious
eater.
If Mercury aspects the Moon in Scorpio, the person will not be skilful, be hard in speech, will
obtain twins, be tricky, will produce fictitious things and be an expert singer.
If Jupiter lends aspect to the Moon in Scorpio, the native will be interested in performing his
duties, will be biased towards people, be wealthy and be beautiful.
If Venus aspects the Moon in Scorpio, the native will be highly intelligent, be fortunate, be
endowed with riches, conveyances and beauty and will lose strength on account of women.

-- 70 of 203 --

71
If Saturn aspects the Moon in Scorpio, the native will have base sons, be a talebearer, be sick,
poor and untruthful.
58. If the Moon is in Sagittarius at birth, the native will be dwarfish, will have round eyes, big
heart, waist and hands, be a good speaker, will have prominent shoulders and neck, will live
near watery zone, will have knowledge of arts and secret affairs, be courageous, will possess
strong bones, be very strong, will have strong neck and lips, be attached to his relatives, be
grateful and distinguished. His legs will not be wider, when in position.
59-64. If the Moon in Sagittarius is aspected by the Sun, the person will be a king, be affluent,
valorous, famous and will have incomparable happiness and conveyances.
Should Mars aspect the Moon in Sagittarius, the person will be an Army chief, will be very rich,
fortunate, famous for his valor and will have a large working force.
If the Moon in Sagittarius is aspected by Mercury, one will have many servants, will be an expert
astrologer and artist and be a skilful dancer.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Sagittarius, one will possess very attractive physique, be a kings
minister and will be endowed with wealth, virtues and happiness.
Should Venus aspect the Moon in Sagittarius, the native will be happy, beautiful and fortunate, be
endowed with sons, wealth and sexual desires and will have good friends and wife.
If Saturn aspects the Moon in Sagittarius, the person will be sweet in speech, will speak good
words, will have wide knowledge of Shastras, be truthful, soft and be a kings man.
65. MOON IN CAPRICORN.
If the Moon at birth be in Capricorn, the native will be a singer, will be averse to cold articles (or
season), will have stout body, will be fond of truth and charity, be distinguished, famous, less
irascible, be libidinous, unkind and shameless; will possess beautiful eyes and emaciated
body, will violate teachers bed, be a poet, will have round thighs, be not very enthusiastic, be
very miserly and will have long neck and ears.
66-71. MOON IN CAPRICORN IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should the Moon in Capricorn be
aspected by the Sun at birth, one will be penniless, miserable, wandering-nature, interested
in others work, dirty and clever.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Capricorn, one will enjoy abundant riches, be highly liberal, be
fortunate, wealthy, will have conveyances and be brave.
If Mercury aspects the Moon in Capricorn, one will be dunce, be interested in living in other
places, be bereft of wife, be fickle minded and be devoid of happiness and money.
Should Jupiter aspect the Moon in Capricorn at birth, the native will be a king, be incomparably
brave, will have royal qualities and will possess many wives, children and friends.
If Venus aspects the Moon in Capricorn, one will join others wives, be endowed with wealth,
ornaments, conveyances, garlands etc., be blameworthy and be issueless.

-- 71 of 203 --

72
If Saturn aspects the Moon in Capricorn one will be indolent, dirty, be endowed with money, be
troubled by sexual feelings, will join others housewives and be untruthful.
72. If the Moon is in Aquarius at birth, the person will have elevated nose, rough, or uneven body
and stout hands and legs, will be addicted to intoxicants, will be averse to the virtuous, be not
himself virtuous, will obtain illegal sons, will have stout head, ugly/diseased eyes, bright face
and prominent waist, be an artisan, will have bad mentality, be miserable and will be very
poor.
73-78. Should the Moon at birth be in Aquarius and be aspected by the Sun , one will be very dirty
in disposition, be valorous, will be like a king in guise, be virtuous and be an agriculturist.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Aquarius, one will be quite truthful, will not inherit money from mother
and elders, be indolent and mysterious and interested in others work.
If Mercury aspects the Moon in Aquarius, the native will be skilful in treating others well, while
hosting them, will be proficient in music, will be liked by the fair sex and will possess less
money and less happiness.
Should Jupiter aspect the Moon in Aquarius, the native will own villages, agriculture lands and
trees, be endowed with superior castles and superior ladies and will be devoted to (sensual)
enjoyment (Bhogi also means rich person, or a king)
If Venus aspects the Moon in Aquarius, the person will be base, issueless, friendless, timid, be
censured by preceptors, be sinful, will have a bad wife and will be least happy.
Should the Moon in Aquarius have Saturns aspect, the native will have (prominent) nails and hair,
be dirty, will seek union with other women, be a dunce, be irreligious and be rich possessing
many immovables.
79. MOON IN PISCES.
If the Moon is in Pisces, the native will be expert in fine arts, be capable of winning even
unfavourable people, be learned in Shastras, beautiful bodied, proficient in music, very
religious, will cohabit with many women, be a polite speaker, will serve the king, be
somewhat irascible, will have a big head, be endowed with happiness and wealth, will be won
over by the fair sex, be virtuous, be interested in sailing and be liberal.
80-85. MOON IN PISCES IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If the Moon posited in Pisces is aspected by the Sun, the native will be highly libidinous, be
happy, be an Army chief, be very affluent and will have delighted wife.
If Mars aspects the Moon in Pisces, the person will be insulted, be devoid of happiness, is an
unchaste womans son, will be interested in sins and will be valorous.
He will be a king, if the Moon in Pisces is aspected by Mercury; will be highly intelligent, be happy
and will be surrounded by supreme females and be controlled by them.
If Jupiter aspects the Moon in Pisces, he will be beautiful, fierce, head of a district, be very
affluent, beautiful and will be surrounded by many women.

-- 72 of 203 --

73
If Venus aspects the Moon in Pisces, he will be skilful in coition, interested in dance, instrumental
music and songs and will steal the hearts of the fair sex.
Should Saturn aspect the Moon in Pisces, he will be deformed, be unfavourable to mother, be
sexually distressed, be devoid of sons, wife and intelligence and will be attached to mean and
ugly females.
88. SAID RESULTS TO MATURE.
If the Lord of the Moon Sign, the Moon Sign itself and the Moon are all endowed with strength,
the said effects (due to Moons position, as laid down in this Ch.) will fully come to pass. The
effects will vary according to positions, like debilitation, exaltation etc. (of the dispositor and
the aspecting planet).
Thus ends the 23rd Ch. in Saravali, entitled Effects arising out of the Moon.
Chapter 24.
Effects of Moon in Various Navansas
1-3. MOON IN NAVANSA OF MARS ASPECTED BY OTHERS. If the Moon is in the Navansa of
Mars aspected by Mars himself, one will win over his enemies and will be valorous.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mars aspected by Saturn, one will be very cunning, deceiving
and trifling.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mars aspected by the Sun, one will be a thief, sometimes cruel
and sometimes protecting and be courageous.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mars aspected by Jupiter, the person will be a king, be famous
and honoured by the learned.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mars aspected by Venus, one will be a kings minister, be wealthy
and be fond of women and cosmetics.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mars aspected by Mercury, one will be a fast speaker and be
fickle-minded.
4-6. MOON IN NAVANSA OF VENUS IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If the Moon is in Taurus/Libra
Navansa and is aspected by Venus, the person will be happy in regard to wife, robes, food
and drinks.
If the Moon is in Taurus/Libra Navansa and is aspected by Mercury the person will have
knowledge of playing musical instruments and be interested in dance and music.

-- 73 of 203 --

74
If the Moon is in Taurus/Libra Navansa and is aspected by Jupiter, the person will be a great
poet, be highly skillful in the branch of justice (or politics), be a kings minister, will enjoy sight
of others housewives, be libidinous and will have many a servant.
If the Moon is in Taurus/Libra Navansa and is aspected by the Sun, the person will be a great
stupid, will possess a beautiful face and will always enjoy food and drinks.
If the Moon is in Taurus/Libra Navansa and is aspected by Saturn, the person will resemble a
carpenter in disposition (i.e. he will be a carpenter by profession).
7-9. MOON IN MERCURYS NAVANSA AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If the Moon is in the
Navansa of Mercury, (i.e. Gemini/Virgo Navansa) and is aspected by Mercury, the native will
be skillful in mechanical, or fine arts (of 64 kinds) and be a poet.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mercury and is aspected by Venus, he will have a broad
physique, be an expert musician and will have rich knowledge of sacred passages (& C
Shastra vachnam, Sruti vachanam and Samriti Vachanam).
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mercury and is aspected by Jupiter, he will be a kings minister,
be a repository of good qualities, be famous and splendourous.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mercury and is aspected by Mars, he will be a notorious thief, be
skillful in arguments and be fierce.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mercury and is aspected by Saturn, he will be skillful in Shastras
and poetry, be learned in arts and be intelligent.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Mercury and is aspected by the Sun, he will be successful in war
and be famous.
10-12. MOON IN CANCER NAVANSA AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If the Moon is in her
Navansa at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the subject will have an emaciated body, but be
free from diseases.
If the Moon is in Cancer and is aspected by Mars, the person will be skilful in stealing others
money and be a miser.
If the Moon is in Cancer and is aspected by Saturn, the person will indulge in prohibited acts and
will incur grief due to imprisonment, litigations and destruction.
If the Moon is in Cancer and is aspected by Venus, the person will be inimical to the fair sex and
will resemble a eunuch.
If the Moon is in Cancer and is aspected by Jupiter, the person will be a kings minister, or be a
king himself.
If the Moon is in Cancer and is aspected by Mercury, the person will be not virtuous, will sleep
much and will wander at all times.
13-15. MOON IN LEO NAVANSA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by the Sun himself, the native will be short-
tempered, famous and wealthy.

-- 74 of 203 --

75
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be sinful, unkind
and will kill living beings.
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by Mars, the native will possess gold,
wealth and fame, will be honoured by the king and be quite valorous.
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by Jupiter the native will be either an Army
chief, or a king.
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by Venus, the native will (only) desire to
have children and will have (only) dead children (i.e. will have no living children).
If the Moon is in Leo Navansa at birth and is aspected by Mercury, the native will be an
astrologer, be fond of heroic history (such, as Mahabharata) and will be very affluent.
16-18. MOON IN JUPITERS NAVANSA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If the Moon is in the Navansa
of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by Jupiter, the native will be beautiful (or spotless), be
liked by the king and be widely famous.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by Venus, the native will be
endowed with conjugal happiness.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by Mercury, the native will be
jocular, be dear to the king and be an Army chief.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by Mars the native will be skillful
in use of weapons and be very famous.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by the Sun the native will have
many blemishes, be famous and be subjected to accidents/calamities.
If the Moon is in the Navansa of Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by Saturn the native will be akin
to old men, be neglected by mighty men and be base.
19-21. MOON IN SATURNS NAVANSA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If the Moon is in
Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be miserly, sickly and
will have dead children.
If the Moon is in Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by the Sun, the native will have a
few children, be miserable with diseases and be ugly.
If the Moon is in Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by Mars, the native will be equal to
a king, be very rich, happy, but unfortunate in regard to wife.
If the Moon is in Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by Venus, he will be of crooked
disposition, be attached to women and be valorous.
If the Moon is in Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by Mercury, the native will be
interested in liquors and will have bad history.
If the Moon is in Capricorn/Aquarius Navansa and is aspected by Jupiter, the native will be
devoted to his own work and be great.

-- 75 of 203 --

76
22-24. SCOPE OF EFFECTS.
If the Moon is in Vargottama Navansa, own Navansa, or others Navansa, the effects will be full,
medium and minor, respectively. This does not apply to evil effects, so to say these will be
reverse. If the Navansa Lord is stronger than the Rasi Lord, then only the effects due to
Navansa Lord will come to pass, i.e., the Navansa effects due to the Moon will be felt, as
against that of her Rasi position. So say Vriddha Yavanas.
Thus ends the 24th Ch. in Kalyana Varmas Saravali entitled Effects arising out of Moons position
in Various Navansas.
Chapter 25.
Effects of Mars in Various Rasis
1-2. MARS IN ARIES.
If Mars at birth occupies Aries, the native will be splendourous, truthful, valorous, be a king, be
fond of war, interested in adventurous acts, be an Army chief, or head of a village, or a band;
be delighted, charitable be endowed with a number of cows, goats etc. and grains, be fierce
and will join many women.
3-4. If Mars is in Taurus
in a nativity, the person will break the vows of chaste women, will eat voraciously, will have little
wealth and few sons, be jealous, will maintain many people, will not trust others, will play
violently, will speak very harshly, be fond of music, be sinful, be inimical to relatives and will
bring infamy to his family.
5-6. MARS IN GEMINI.
Should Mars be in Gemini, the native will be splendourous, be capable of enduring miseries, be
very learned, be well versed with poetical rules, skilful in various kinds of fine arts, fond of
going to foreign countries, virtuously disposed, highly intelligent, favourably disposed to his
sons and friends and will devote to various kinds of assignments.
7-8. MARS IN CANCER.
If Mars is in Cancer at birth, the subject will like living in others houses, be deformed, sick, will
attain riches through agriculture, will enjoy royal food and robes during childhood, will eat
food in others houses, will become wealthy through the source of water, be repeatedly
anguished and be always distressed.

-- 76 of 203 --

77
9-10. MARS IN LEO.
If Mars is in Leo in a nativity, the native will be impatient, be valorous, intent upon grabbing others
money and children, will like to live in forests, be fond of eating cows flesh (or beef etc.), will
lose his first wife, will kill snakes and animals, will be bereft of children, be devoid of
charitable acts and be always active in his jobs.
11-12. MARS IN VIRGO.
Should Mars occupy Virgo at birth, the subject will be worthy of honour, be never rich, be very
fond of sexual union and music, be soft and sweet spoken, will have various kinds of
expenses, be not much valorous, be learned, will have ribs in their advanced position, will
fear enemies very much, be skillful in Shastras and fine arts, be fond of bathing, make-up etc.
and be splendourous.
13-14. If Mars occupies Libra
in a nativity, the person will be liable to wandering, will indulge in bad business, be an able
speaker, be fortunate, deformed in respect of some limb, will have few relatives, be fond of
wars, will lose his first wife, will deal in liquors and will earn through prostitutes to only lose.
15-16. MARS IN SCORPIO.
If Mars occupies Scorpio at birth, the native will be attached to trade, will be interested in Vedic
knowledge, be leader of thieves, skilful in his duties, be interested in wars, be highly sinful,
will do big crimes, will be perfidious towards his enemies, will betray, be disposed towards
killing, be unhelpful, be a talebearer, will be endowed with lands, sons and wife and be
troubled by poison, fire, weapons and wounds.
17-18. MARS IN SAGITTARIUS.
Should Mars be in Sagittarius, the native will have many wounds, be emaciated, be harsh in
speech, crafty, alienated, be a warrior endowed with chariots, elephants and Army men, will
pass arrows on others Army from his chariot, be happy with hard work, will lose his
happiness and money due to anger and will not honour elders.
19-20. If Mars is posited in Capricorn at birth,
one will be wealthy (fortunate), be endowed with happiness and pleasures, be wealthy, will have
an excellent disposition, be famous, be an Army chief, or a king, will possess a good wife, be
successful in war, will live in his own country, be independent, be a protector, be virtuous and
will be interested in various procedures.
21-22. If Mars is posited in Aquarius at the time of ones birth,
he will be devoid of both affection and purity, will look like an old person, will die a bad death, will
have spite, jealousy, untruthful disposition, afflicted speech and lost wealth, will be ugly, will
have (abundant) hair on the body, will lose money in gambling, will be unsightly, will have
miserable profession, be fond of liquor and be unfortunate.

-- 77 of 203 --

78
23-24. MARS IN PISCES.
Should Mars be in Pisces at the time of ones birth, the person will be troubled by diseases, will
have indifferent children, will live in foreign countries, be insulted by his own relatives, will
lose all his wealth by his cunning and cheating disposition, will be depressed in spirits, be
very miserable, will disrespect elders and Brahmins, be unkind, will conceive (others) desires,
be fond of praises and be famous.
25-30. MARS IN OWN RASHI AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Mars at birth be in
Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by the Sun, the person will possess wealth, wife and ch ildren,
be a kings minister, be a justice, be famous and be a charitable king.
Should Mars at birth be in Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by the Moon, the native will be bereft of
mother, will have a wounded body, will hate his own people, will not have friends, be jealous
and will have female children.
Should Mars at birth be in Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by Mercury, the subject will be an
expert in stealing others money, be a liar, be devoted to Manmatha (i.e. highly libidinous), be
hostile and will frequently visit prostitutes.
Should Mars at birth be in Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by Jupiter, the native will be learned,
sweet-spoken, fortunate, dear to parents, be very affluent and will be a king par excellence.
Should Mars at birth be in Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by Venus, the native will be imprisoned
due to females and will be deprived of his money on account of females, more than once.
Should Mars at birth be in Aries/Scorpio and be aspected by Saturn, the native will be capable of
hindering thieves in spite of his being not valorous, will be devoid of his men and will maintain
another woman.
31-36. MARS IN A HOUSE OF VENUS AND ASPECTED BY OTHERS. If Mars is in
Taurus/Libra, with the aspect of the Sun, the person will seek to move in forests and hills, will
hate women, will have many enemies, will have fierce appearance and be courageous.
If Mars is in Taurus/Libra with the aspect of the Moon, the native will not honour his mother, be
wicked, will lord many women and be dear to them and will fear war.
If Mars is in Taurus/Libra with the aspect of Mercury, the native will promote quarrels, will speak
much, will have a soft body, will possess (indifferent or) few sons and little wealth and will be
learned in Shastras.
If Mars is in Taurus/Libra with the aspect of Jupiter, the subject will be skilful in music and in play
of musical instruments, be fortunate, be dear to his relatives and will be pure.
If Mars is in Taurus/Libra with the aspect of Venus, the person will be a kings minister, be liked by
the king, be an Army chief, will have famous name (i.e. titles etc.) and will be happy.

-- 78 of 203 --

79
If Mars is in Taurus/Libra with the aspect of Saturn, the native will be happy, famous, wealthy, be
endowed with friends and own men, be learned and will be head of a group of villages/towns,
or group of men.
37-42. MARS IN MERCURYS RASHI AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If at birth Mars be in
Gemini/Virgo and in aspect to the Sun, the native will be blessed with learning, wealth and
courage, be fond of hills, forests and fortresses and be highly strong.
If Mars is in Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by the Moon, the person will be happy, wealthy,
splendourous, will guard womens apartments, will be endowed with women and will manage
the kings residence.
If Mars is in Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be skilful in the art of writing, in
mathematics and in poetry, be garrulous, be liar, be a sweet speaker, be a messenger (or an
ambassador) and will endure lot of misery.
If Mars is in Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Jupiter, the native will be a kings representative, be
bright, will go to foreign countries, as an ambassador, be skilful in all doings and be a leader.
If Mars is in Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Venus, the person will do the jobs of females, be
very fortunate and will enjoy food and robes.
If Mars is in Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Saturn, the person will be interested in wandering in
mines (i.e. places beneath surface), hills and forests, will have husbandry, as his livelihood,
be highly miserable, be very valorous, dirty and be devoid of wealth.
43-48. MARS IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Mars be in Cancer at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be subjected to bilious
diseases, be splendourous, be a justice in position and be valorous.
If the Moon aspects Mars in Cancer, the person will be troubled by various diseases, will have
mean conduct, will possess an unsightly body and be miserable.
If Mercury aspects Mars in Cancer, the person will be dirty, sinful, will possess a mean family, will
be rejected by his own men and be shameless.
If Mars in Cancer is aspected by Jupiter, the native will be famous, be kings minister, be learned,
charitable, wealthy and be bereft of carnal pleasures.
If Venus aspects Mars in Cancer, the subject will be grieved on account of womens company, be
insulted by women and will lose wealth on account of women.
Should Saturn aspect Mars in Cancer, the native will acquire money through journey in water, be
equal to a king, be sportive in his acts and be always bright.
49-54. MARS IN LEO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Mars is in Leo and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be humble, helpful to friends, be
endowed with own men and be fond of wandering in cow-houses, forests and hills.
If the Moon aspects Mars in Leo, the native will be ominous for his mother, be intelligent, will
possess a hard body, be widely famous and will obtain money through women.

-- 79 of 203 --

80
If Mercury aspects Mars in Leo, the native will be clever in many arts, be a miser, be skilful in
poetry and fine arts and be wicked.
If Jupiter aspects Mars in Leo, the person will be close to the king, be highly learned, be of pure
mentality and be an Army chief.
Should Venus aspect Mars in Leo, the person will have union with many women, be fortunate in
respect of his wife and will be ever juvenile.
Saturn aspecting Mars in Leo denotes, that the person will look, like an old man, be poor, will
wander in others houses/be miserable.
55-60. MARS IN JUPITERS HOUSE IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Mars occupies Sagittarius, or
Pisces at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the subject will be world honoured, be fortunate,
will live in forests, hills and fortresses and be cruel.
If Mars is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by the Moon, the person will be deformed,
belligerent, learned and be always inimical to the king.
If Mars is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Mercury, the person will be a scholar, be
skilful, learned in fine arts and be highly learned in general.
If Mars is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Jupiter, the person will be devoid of wife
and happiness, will be beyond the reach of enemies, be wealthy and be fond of exercises.
If Mars is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Venus, the person will be very much dear to
women, be interested in cosmetics, makeup etc., be charitable, be libidinous and be
fortunate.
If Mars is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Saturn, the person will have defective body,
be sinful, wandering-nature, devoid of happiness and interested in others rel igion.
61-66. MARS IN SATURNS HOUSE AND ASPECTED BY OTHERS. Should Mars be in
Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by the Sun, the subject will have very dark body, be
courageous, will have many wives, sons and abundant wealth and be very sharp.
Should Mars be in Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by the Moon, one will be fickle
minded, be not well disposed towards his mother, be fond of beautification, be charitable, be
not firm in friendship and be rich.
Should Mars be in Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by Mercury, the subject will walk very
slowly, be not rich, will not have any profession, be not strong, be not outspoken and be not
virtuous.
Should Mars be in Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by Jupiter, the native will be very
beautiful, will possess kingly qualities, will fulfil his undertakings, be long-lived and be
endowed with relatives.
Should Mars be in Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by Venus, one will be endowed with
various kinds of (carnal) pleasures, be interested in fostering women and be belligerent.

-- 80 of 203 --

81
Should Mars be in Capricorn, or Aquarius and be aspected by Saturn, the person will be a king,
be very affluent, will hate women, will possess many children, be learned, be devoid, of
happiness and be timid in war.
Thus ends the 25th Ch. entitled Effects of Mars in Various Rasis in Saravali of Kalyana Varma.
Chapter 26.
Effects of Mercury in Various Rasis
1-2. MERCURY IN ARIES.
If Mercury is in Aries at the time of ones birth, the native will be fond of battles (be
uncompromising), be very learned, wicked, emaciated, interested in music and dance, be
untruthful, be attached to sexual pleasures, be a writer, will produce fictitious things, will eat
much, will lose hard-earned money, will incur debts and imprisonment frequently and will be
sometimes fickle minded and yet sometimes firm in disposition.
3-4. Should Mercury be in Taurus,
the native will be skilful, eminently liberal, be famous, will have knowledge of Vedas and Sastras,
be fond of exercises, robes, ornaments and garlands, be firm in disposition, will have
sincerely earned wealth, will possess a chaste wife, will be a soft and sweet speaker and be
after sexual satisfaction.
5-6. If Mercury occupies Gemini at birth,
the subject will have an auspicious appearance, will speak sweetly, be very affluent, be an able
speaker, be honourable, will give up his happiness, will cohabit less, will have two wives, be
fond of arguments, will be learned in Vedas, Sastras etc., be a poet, be independent, dear,
very munificent, proficient in work and will have many sons and friends.
7-8. One born with Mercury in Cancer
will be learned, will be fond of living in other countries, be interested in cohabiting with women
and also in music, be fickle-minded, prattling, inimical to his own relatives, will be fond of
arguments, will lose wealth on account of enmity with women, be of bad disposition, be
interested in many jobs, be a good poet and will be popular on account of the fame of his
ancestors.
9-10. Should the planet Mercury occupy Leo at ones birth,
the native will not possess even bit of wisdom (Kala bit, hence Gnanakala interpreted thus), be
famous in the world, be not truthful, will possess a weak memory, be wealthy, be not strong,

-- 81 of 203 --

82
will indulge in fratricide, be unfortunate in respect of wife, be independent, mean in conduct,
be a servant, be devoid of children, be against his own race, but be favourable to others.
11-12. If Mercury occupies his exaltation Sign at the time of ones birth, the native will be quite
virtuous, eloquent, skilful, will have knowledge of writing (be an exponent) and poetry, be
learned in fine/mechanical arts, be sweet in disposition, be liked by women, be not much
virile, be the eldest son of family, be honoured by virtuous, be disposed to serve others,
modest, argumentative, famous, charitable and strong.
13-14. If Mercury falls in Libra at the time of ones birth, the native will possess knowledge of arts,
be intent upon arguments, be an able speaker, will spend money lavishly, will have business
in various directions, will honour wise men, guests, Gods and preceptors (elders), be skilful in
pretending to serve others, be amiable, devoted to Gods, fraudulent, fickle-minded and
sometimes short-tempered and yet sometimes (notably) peaceful.
15-16. MERCURY IN SCORPIO.
If Mercury is posited in Scorpio, one will experience troubles, grief and evils, will hate the virtuous,
will be devoid of truth, religion and shame, be a dunce, be not virtuous, be a miser, will
cohabit with wicked women, be fond of giving cruel punishments, be not out spoken, be
interested in blameworthy jobs, will incur debts, will join base men and will steel others
properties.
17-18. Should Mercury be in Sagittarius,
the native will be famous, liberal, will have knowledge of Vedas and Sastras, be valorous, will
practice abstract meditation, be a minister, or family priest, be chief among his race-men, will
be very rich, be interested in performing Yajas and teaching (Vedas etc.), be a skilful
speaker, be charitable and be an expert in writing and fine arts.
19-20. MERCURY IN CAPRICORN.
If Mercury is in Capricorn at birth, the native will be mean, dull, impotent, will do others work, be
devoid of virtues, be subjected to various kinds of miseries, will dream, wander etc., be a tale
bearer, be untruthful, devoid of relatives, dirty and timid.
21-22. MERCURY IN AQUARIUS.
Should Mercury be in Aquarius at birth, the subject will be bereft of good disposition and good
deeds, be attached to many religious acts, will give up doing worthy things, be insulted by
others, be impure, be not virtuous, be very wicked, be inimical to wife, be devoid of carnal
pleasures, be very unfortunate, very timid, impotent, dirty and modest.
23-24. Should Mercury be in Pisces,
one will be fond of good conduct and purity, will live in foreign countries, be issueless, poor, will
have a chaste wife, be virtuous, fortunate, be devoid of religion, be skilful in stitching etc. and
be devoid of profane knowledge, acquaintance with Sastras and fine arts, will be proficient in
bagging others wealth and will be devoid of wealth.

-- 82 of 203 --

83
25-30. MERCURY IN ARIES/SCORPIO AND ASPECTED BY OTHERS. Should Mercury occupy
a Sign of Mars at birth and be aspected by the Sun, the person will be truthful, be very happy,
be honoured by the king and be patiently disposed.
If Mercury is in a Sign of Mars and is aspected by the Moon, the native will steal the hearts of the
fair sex, will serve others, be dirty and be bereft of virtues.
If Mercury is in a Sign of Mars and is aspected by Mars, one will be a liar, a sweet speaker, will
promote quarrels, be learned, affluent, dear to king and valorous.
If Mercury is in a Sign of Mars and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be happy, will possess a
glossy and hairy physique, will have attractive hair, will be very rich, will command others and
be sinful.
If Mercury is in a Sign of Mars and is aspected by Venus, the subject will be in royal service, be
fortunate, principal among men, or in his town, will speak skilfully, be trustworthy and will be
endowed with a wife.
If Mercury is in a Sign of Mars and is aspected by Saturn, the person will experience miseries, be
fierce, be intent upon doing cruel activities and be devoid of his own men.
31-36. MERCURY IN TAURUS/LIBRA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Mercury be in a House
of Venus and be aspected by the Sun, the subject will suffer from penury and acute grief, will
have a sick physique, be interested in serving others and will be censured.
Should Mercury be in a House of Venus and be aspected by the Moon, the native will be
trustworthy, affluent, firmly pious, devoid of sickness, will have lasting family ties, be famous
and be a kings minister.
Should Mercury be in a House of Venus and be aspected by Mars, the native will be troubled by
diseases and enemies, be distressed, will incur royal insult and will be deprived of all worldly
objects.
Should Mercury be in a House of Venus and be aspected by Jupiter, the native will be highly
learned, will fulfil his promise, will be leader of a country/city/group of men and be famous.
Should Mercury be in a House of Venus and be aspected by Venus, the person will be fortunate,
soft in disposition, be happy, will enjoy good robes make up etc. and will steal the hearts of
the fair sex.
If Saturn throws his aspect on Mercury in a House of Venus, the subject will be devoid of
happiness, be dirty, will experience many diseases and evils, will be subjected to grief on
account of his relatives and be distressed.
37-42. MERCURY IN OWN HOUSE AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Mercury be in
Gemini/Virgo and be aspected by the Sun, the native will speak truth, be fortunate, dear to
king, be a Lord himself, be polite in his activities and be liked by all.

-- 83 of 203 --

84
Should Mercury be in his own House and receive the aspect of the Moon, the person will be
sweet in disposition, garrulous, will promote quarrels, be interested in acquiring sastric
knowledge, firm and will succeed in all his undertakings.
Should Mercury be in his own House and receive the aspect of Mars, the person will have an
injured body, be dirty, be a genius, will serve the king and be dear to him.
Should Mercury be in his own House and receive the aspect of Jupiter, one will be a kings
minister, be excellent, be beautiful, charitable, rich, be endowed with his own men and be
courageous.
Should Mercury be in his own House and receive the aspect of Venus, the native will be highly
learned be a royal employee, be a messenger, will honour friendship and will be interested in
base women.
Should Mercury be in his own House and receive the aspect of Saturn, one will be progressive-
minded, be modest, will achieve success in undertakings started by him and will be wealthy
with money and clothes.
43-48. MERCURY IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Mercury be in Cancer, in
aspect to the Sun, one will be a dhoby, or a gardener, or a house-builder, or gem smith.
If the Moon aspects Mercury in Cancer, one will be deprived of wealth (or energy of the physique)
on account of women and will be miserable for the same reason.
If Mars lends his aspect to Mercury in Cancer, he will not have much learning, be garrulous, be a
great liar, will produce fictitious things, be a thief and will be affectionate in speech.
If Jupiter aspects Mercury in Cancer, one will be a great scholar, very dear (to all), be fortunate,
dear to the king and will cross the boundaries of learning.
Should Venus aspect Mercury in Cancer, one will be equal to Cupid in appearance, will possess
attractive physique, be well-versed in the art of singing and in playing musical instruments, be
fortunate and softly disposed.
If Saturn aspects Mercury in Cancer, one will be fond of vanity, be sinful, will face imprisonment,
be devoid of virtues and will hate co-born and elders.
49-54. MERCURY IN LEO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Mercury occupies Leo at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be jealous, rich,
virtuous, cruel, mean, fickle-minded and shameless.
If the Moon aspects Mercury in Leo, one will be very beautiful, very skilful, be interested in poetry,
fine arts, music and dance, be wealthy and virtuous.
If Mars lends his aspect to Mercury in Leo, one will be base, miserable, physically injured,
unskilful and impotent.
If Jupiter aspects Mercury in Leo, one will be beautiful, very learned, be a gifted speaker, be very
famous and be endowed with attendants and conveyances.

-- 84 of 203 --

85
If Venus aspects Mercury in Leo, one will possess unparalleled beauty, be softly disposed, will
have an attractive face, will have many conveyances, be very courageous and be a minister.
If Saturn aspects Mercury in Leo, one will be tall in stature, be splendourless, be ugly, will
emanate bad smell from body out of sweat and be miserable.
55-60. MERCURY IN JUPITERS HOUSE IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Mercury be in
Sagittarius/Pisces and aspected by the Sun, one will suffer from urinary diseases and
epilepsy and be peaceful in disposition.
If the Moon aspects Mercury in Sagittarius/Pisces, the native will be a writer, be beautiful par
excellence, be very affluent, trustworthy, amiable and happy.
If Mars aspects Mercury in Sagittarius/Pisces, the native will be a leader of townsmen, or thieves,
will reside in forests and will be a famous writer.
Should Jupiter aspect Mercury in Sagittarius/Pisces, the native will be rich by memory, intelligent
nd descendency, be beautiful, noble and knowledgeable, be a kings minister, or his treasurer
and be a writer.
If Venus aspect Mercury in Sagittarius/Pisces, the native will educate boys and girls, be wealthy,
soft in disposition and brave.
If Saturn aspect Mercury in Sagittarius/Pisces, the native will be intent upon living in forests, will
eat much, be wicked, dirty and will be unsuccessful in all his undertakings.
61-66. MERCURY IN SATURNS HOUSE IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Mercury be in a House of
Saturn and is aspected by the Sun, one will be a boxer, be very strong, one will eat
abundantly, be censured, will speak sweetly and be famous.
If Mercury be in a House of Saturn and is aspected by the Moon, one will derive his livelihood
through water, be plentiful will sell flowers, liquor and bulbs (vegetables), will have fierce
appearance and be firm (i.e. not moving much).
If Mercury be in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Mars, one will be infirm in speech, be calm
in disposition, bashful and happy.
If Mercury be in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with
abundant money and grains, be honoured in his village/town and by his men, be happy and
be famous.
If Mercury be in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Venus, one will be the husband of a base
woman, be ugly, be unintelligible, be troubled by sexual passion and will have many sons.
If Mercury be in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Saturn, one will be sinful, very poor,
miserable and mean.
Thus ends the 26th Ch., entitled Effects of Mercury in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 85 of 203 --

86
Chapter 27
Effects of Jupiter in Various Signs
1-2. JUPITER IN ARIES.
If Jupiter is posited in Aries at birth, one will be argumentative in disposition, will acquire precious
stones and ornaments out of his efforts, will be endowed with strength, sons and wealth, will
have eminent and famous profession, be splendourous, will have many enemies, much
expenses and an injured body and will confer fierce and cruel punishments.
3-4. Should Jupiter be in Taurus,
one will be endowed with a broad body, be corpulent, will honour Brahmins and Gods, be
splendourous, fortunate, attached to his wife, be endowed with good appearance, profession,
cows and abundant wealth; will possess good articles and ornaments, be distinguished in
speech, intelligence and skill; will have political / judicial wisdom, be modest, be endowed
with medical accomplishments and be skillful in experiments.
5-6. Should Jupiter be in Gemini,
the native will be affluent, scholarly, proficient, will possess attractive eyes, be eloquent,
courteous, skilful, virtuous, will honour elders and relatives, will be able to utter bejeweled
words (be literally rich in words), which are benevolent in nature, be devoted to his duties and
be a good poet.
7-8. If Jupiter be in Cancer at birth,
the native will be a scholar, be beautiful, be highly learned, charitable, good-natured, be very
strong, be famous, will possess abundant grains and riches, be endowed with truth and
penance, will have long-living sons, be honoured by all, will be a king, will have a
distinguished profession and will be attached to his friends.
9-10. Should Jupiter be in Leo at the time of birth,
the native will be lastingly inimical, be strong, courageous, will show abundant friendship, be
learned, rich, will have eminent relatives, be a king, will have heroism akin to that of a king,
will be recognizable in an assembly, will destroy the entire band of his enemies, will possess
a strong physique and will live in hills, fortresses, forests and temples.
11-12. If Jupiter occupies Virgo at birth,
one will be a scholar, be virtuous, be skilful in his work, be fond of scents, robes and flowers, will
firmly gain in undertakings, will have rich experience in Sastras and fine arts, be affluent,
charitable, pure-hearted, skilful and wonderfully learned.

-- 86 of 203 --

87
13-14. If Jupiter occupies Libra at birth,
one will be a scholar, will have many sons, be endowed with foreign assignments, will be very
affluent, interested in ornaments, modest, will earn money through dance and drama, be
pleasing in appearance, be splendourous, learned in Sastras, be superior among his
colleague-businessmen, will honour Gods and guests and be very learned.
15-16. Should Jupiter at the time of ones birth be in Scorpio,
he will be expert in Sastras, be a king, will be a commentator of many Bhasyas (a commentary,
which explains Sutras word by word with comments of its own, for example, on Vedas), be
skillful, will construct temples and towns, will have many wives, but few sons, be troubled by
diseases, will undergo many difficulties, be very fierce, be ostentatious in his performance, be
virtuous and will indulge in contemptuous acts.
17-18. If Jupiter occupies Sagittarius at birth,
one will be a preceptor, will conduct religious vows, initiations, sacrifices etc., will have lasting
wealth, be charitable, be friendly to his own men, be fond of helping others, interested in
Shastras, be the head of a zone, or a minister, will live in many countries, will prefer
loneliness and be interested in visiting shrines.
19-20. JUPITER IN CAPRICORN.
Jupiter in Capricorn denotes, that the native will be less virile, will experience much grief and
difficulties, will be mean in conduct, be a dunce, will meet a bad end, will suffer from penury,
will serve others, will be bereft of auspiciousness, mercy, purity, affection to his relatives and
of religion, will have an emaciated body, be timid, interested in living in other countries and be
depressed of spirits.
21-22. JUPITER IN AQUARIUS.
If Jupiter falls in Aquarius at the time of birth, one will be a tale-bearer, be ill disposed, interested
in evil jobs, be chief among his racemen, be always attached to base men, be malicious,
miserly, will suffer from diseases, will lose wealth on account his own utterances, be devoid
of intelligence and virtues and will violate elders beds.
23-24. JUPITER IN PISCES.
If Jupiter is in Pisces at birth, one will be expert in knowing the meanings of Vedas and other
Shastras, will be honoured by friends and virtuous people, will be a headsman in the kings
employ, be praiseworthy, unconquerable, rich, devoid of fear, be proud, firm in undertakings,
be a king, be skillful in policies, training, behavior and war tactics, be famous and will be calm
in his doings.
25-30. JUPITER IN ARlES/SCORPIO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Jupiter occupies
Aries/Scorpio at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be charitable, will be truthful,
will have famous sons, be very fortunate and will have abundant hair on the body.

-- 87 of 203 --

88
If Jupiter occupies Aries/Scorpio and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be a historical and
poetical writer, will be endowed with many precious stones, be dear to women, be a king and
be highly learned.
If Jupiter occupies Aries/Scorpio and is aspected by Mars, one is of royal scion, will be valorous,
fierce, endowed with knowledge of politics, be modest, affluent and will have a disobedient
wife and disobedient servants.
If Jupiter occupies Aries/Scorpio and is aspected by Mercury, the native will be a liar, be crafty,
sinful, will be skilful in detecting others defects, will serve others, be grateful, be modest and
be not outspoken.
If Jupiter occupies Aries/Scorpio and is aspected by Venus, one will be very happy in respect of
residences, sleeping comforts, robes, scents, garlands, ornaments and wife and be very
timid.
If Jupiter occupies Aries/Scorpio and is aspected by Saturn, the subject will be dirty, miserly,
sharp, adventurous, amiable, famous and will not have lasting children and friendship.
31-36. JUPITER IN TAURUS/LIBRA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Jupiter occupies a House of
Venus at birth and is aspected by the Sun, one will be endowed with attendants and
quadrupeds. will wander verily, will have a long body, be learned and be a kings minister.
If Jupiter occupies a House of Venus and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be abundantly
rich, be very calm, Sweet, be dear to mother and wife and will enjoy much pleasures.
If Jupiter occupies a House of Venus and is aspected by Mars, the native will be dear to the fair
sex, be learned, courageous, affluent, happy and be of royal Scion.
If Jupiter occupies a House of Venus and is aspected by Mercury, the native will be learned,
Skilful, sweet, fortunate, endowed with riches, be highly virtuous and be splendourous.
If Jupiter occupies a House of Venus and is aspected by Venus, the native will be very attractive,
affluent, will wear excellent ornaments, be merciful and will enjoy excellent sleeping comforts
and excellent robes.
If Jupiter occupies a House of Venus and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be a scholar, will
be endowed with abundant wealth and corns, be excellent among the people of his
village/town, be dirty, ugly and be devoid of wife.
37-42. JUPITER IN MERCURYS HOUSE AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Jupiter occupies
Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by the Sun at birth, one will be great, important in his village be
a householder and will be endowed with wife, sons and money.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be affluent, dear to
mother, fortunate, happy, will have wife and sons and be incomparable.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Mars, one will be easily successful at all
times, be ugly, rich and be amiable to all.

-- 88 of 203 --

89
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be a skilful astrologer, will
have many children and wives and will be exponent of many aphorisms and precepts and
speak with great excellence.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Venus, the native will undertake acts of
temple construction, will visit prostitutes and will win womens hearts.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be the head of a group,
state, or village and be beautiful.
43-48. JUPITER IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Jupiter occupies Cancer at birth and is aspected by the Sun, native will be famous, be ahead of
others and will (in the beginning) be devoid of happiness, wealth and wife, all of which will be
acquired by him later.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be very rich,
splendourous, be a king, will enjoy abundant wealth and conveyances and will have excellent
wife and sons.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Mars, one will marry in the boyhood itself, will
be endowed with gold and ornaments, be learned, valorous and will have a wounded
physique.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be endowed with relatives
and friends, be rich, will promote quarrels, be bereft of sins, be a minister and be trustworthy.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Venus, one will have many wives,
extraordinary riches, various ornaments, be happy and fortunate.
If Jupiter occupies Gemini/Virgo and is aspected by Saturn, one will be important in his village, or
in the Army, or in his town, be talkative, be very affluent, garrulous and will enjoy pleasures in
old age.
49-54. JUPITER IN LEO ASPECTED BY OTHERS.
If at birth Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by the Sun, one will be dear to good men, be famous,
be a king, be extremely affluent and virtuous.
If Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be very beautiful, dirty, will be very
rich through the fortunes of his wife and will conquer his five senses.
If Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by Mars, the native will honour elders at all times, will perform
distinguished acts, be very skilful, pure, adventurous and cruel.
If Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by Mercury, the native will have knowledge of civil works of
building construction, will be endowed with profane knowledge, be virtuous, be a sweet
speaker, be a minister and be highly learned.
If Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by Venus, the native will be dear to females, be fortunate, will
receive royal honours and be very strong.

-- 89 of 203 --

90
If Jupiter is in Leo and is aspected by Saturn, one will be garrulous, be an eloquent speaker, be
devoid of happiness, be sharp and will have mean children and mean wife.
55-60. JUPITER IN OWN HOUSE AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Jupiter is posited in
Sagittarius/Pisces at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be inimical to the king
and will be miserable being bereft of wealth and relatives.
If Jupiter is posited in Sagittarius/Pisces and is aspected by the Moon, the native will enjoy many
kinds of happiness, be very fortunate in respect of wife and will have the pride of honour,
wealth and possessions.
If Jupiter is posited in Sagittarius/Pisces and is aspected by Mars, one will be injured in war, be
cruel, will cause torture, will harm others and will lose children.
If Jupiter is posited in Sagittarius/Pisces and is aspected by Mercury, the native will be a minister,
or a king, will be happy with wealth, fortunes and progeny and will enjoy all kinds of delights.
If Jupiter is posited in Sagittarius/Pisces and is aspected by Venus, the native will be happy,
learned, be devoid of blemishes, be long-lived, fortunate and will be blessed by Goddess
Lakshmi.
If Jupiter is posited in Sagittarius/Pisces and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be dirty, will be
fear-stricken, be neglected by the people of his village/town and be devoid of happiness,
pleasures and virtues.
61-66. JUPITER IN A HOUSE OF SATURN IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Jupiter is in a House of
Saturn at birth and is aspected by the Sun, one will be learned, be a king, be rich by birth, will
enjoy various kinds of pleasures and be very courageous.
If Jupiter is in a House of Saturn and is aspected by the Moon, the native will be devoted to his
parents, be superior by birth, be learned rich, virtuous and very charitable.
If Jupiter is in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Mars, one will be valorous, be an Army chief
with the king, splendourous, well-dressed, famous and honoured.
If Jupiter is in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Mercury, one will be highly libidinous,
important among his folk, rich by conveyances and wealth, famous and will have many
friends.
If Jupiter is in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Venus, the native will be endowed with food,
drinks, excellent residence, sleeping comforts, wealth, conveyances, excellent wife,
ornaments and robes.
If Jupiter is in a House of Saturn and is aspected by Saturn, the native will be endowed with
incomparable learning, be supreme, be a king of his country, be rich with attendants and
quadrupeds and will enjoy pleasures.
Thus ends the 27th Ch. entitled Effects of Jupiter in Various Signs in Kalyana Varmas Saravali

-- 90 of 203 --

91
Chapter 28
Effects of Venus in Various Signs
1-2. Should Venus be in Aries at birth,
one will be night-blind, will have many blemishes, be inimical, will join other housewives, will visit
whores, will move in forests and hills, will be imprisoned on account of women, be base, hard
in disposition, be an Army chief, or chief of men, be not reliable and be eminent.
3-4. VENUS IN TAURUS.
Should Venus at birth be in Taurus, one will be endowed with many wives and gems, be an
agriculturist, will possess scents, garlands and robes, will live on account of cows, be
charitable, will maintain his relatives, will have good appearance, will be learned in many
branches, will give away many things, will help the living beings and be a principal person.
5-6. Should Venus occupy Gemini at birth,
one will be famous in sciences and Sastras, be beautiful, libidinous, be skilful in writing and in
poetry, be dear to good people, will derive wealth through music and dances, will have many
friends, will honour Gods and Brahmins and be firm in friendship.
7-8. If Venus occupies Cancer at the time of ones birth,
he will be wise, virtuous, learned, strong, soft, chief among men, will have desired happiness and
wealth, be good-looking, just, very much troubled on account of women and wine and will be
miserable with family troubles.
9-10. If Venus occupies Leo at birth,
the native will respect women, will enjoy wealth and happiness, will have less virility, be dear to
relatives, be miserable in spite of his happiness, will help others, will respect Brahmins,
elders and preceptors and will be devoid of much discrimination.
11-12. Should Venus be in Virgo,
the native will not be quite discriminative, be soft in disposition, be skilful, will be helpful to others,
will speak sweetly, will earn money through several sources, will cohabit with bad women, be
mean, be devoid of happiness and pleasures, will beget more daughters and less sons, will
visit shrines and be a scholar in an assembly.
13-14. VENUS IN LIBRA.
If Venus occupies Libra, the native will acquire hard-earned money, be valorous, endowed with
superior robes etc., interested in living in foreign countries, will protect his own people, be
skilful in his duties, rich, meritorious, famous by honouring Gods and Brahmins, be a scholar
and be fortunate.

-- 91 of 203 --

92
15-16. If Venus occupies Scorpio,
the subject will be jealous, be very malicious, be not religious, be argumentative, be crafty, be not
attached to brothers, be not fortunate, will be troubled by enemies, be distressed, will be
inimical to unchaste women, be skilful in killing, will incur heavy debts, will suffer penury, be
proud and will contract venereal diseases.
17-18. One, who has Venus in Sagittarius
will be endowed with good results accruing out of virtues, dutifulness and wealth, be dear to all
people, be splendourous, be an excellent personage, will shine like the Sun before his family
members, be a scholar, will be endowed with cows, be fond of decoration, will enjoy wealth,
wife and fortunes, be a kings minister, be skilful, will have a stout and long physique and be
respected by all.
19-20. VENUS IN CAPRICORN.
If Venus occupies Capricorn at birth, one will be miserable due to heavy expenses, will have an
emaciated body, will be fond of aged women, will suffer from heart diseases, be miserly in the
matter of money, be a liar, be skilful in cheating, be a eunuch, be devoid of (good) acts,
interested in others work, very distressed, be a dunce and will, however, endure misery.
21-22. Should Venus be in Aquarius,
one will suffer from fear and excitement, be not successful in undertakings, will go to other
women, be not virtuous, be inimical to elders and to his children, be bereft of ablutions, like
bathing and will not be endowed with (good) robes, ornaments etc. and be dirty.
23-24. VENUS IN PISCES.
If Venus is posited in Pisces at birth, one will be courteous, liberal, virtuous, very wealthy, will
destroy enemies, be famous in the world, excellent, distinguished, dear to king, be endowed
with good speech and wisdom, be liberal, will derive wealth and respect from the virtuous, will
keep up his promise, will maintain his family members and be endowed with knowledge.
25-30. VENUS IN ARIES OR SCORPIO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Venus occupy
Aries/Scorpio at birth and is in aspect to the Sun, one will be miserable on account of women
and will lose wealth and happiness on account of them, will be a king and be learned.
If Venus is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by the Moon, one will be imprisoned, very fickle-
minded, be libidinous, will marry a base lady and will be bereft of children.
If Venus is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Mars, one will be devoid of wealth, honour and
happiness, will do others jobs and will perform dirty jobs.
If Venus is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Mercury, one will be foolish, profligate,
unworthy, be not in good terms with his own relatives, be immodest, thievish, mean and
cruel.

-- 92 of 203 --

93
If Venus is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with beautiful
eyes, will have a charitable wife, will possess a beautiful and long body and will have many
sons.
If Venus is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Saturn, one will be very dirty, lazy and
wandering-natured, will serve others and be a thief.
31-36. VENUS IN OWN HOUSE IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Venus at birth occupy
Taurus/Libra and is aspected by the Sun, the person will acquire an excellent wife and
abundant wealth, will become a great man and will be subdued by women.
If Venus is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by the Moon, it indicates, that one is born of an
excellent mother, will be endowed with happiness, wealth, respect and sons, will have
excellence and be splendourous.
If Venus is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Mars, one will marry a bad female, will lose
home and wealth on account of females and be sensuous.
If Venus is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Mercury, one will be splendourous, sweet,
fortunate, happy, bold, wise and virtuous and will possess distinguished strength.
If Venus is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with wife, sons,
abodes, conveyances, riches etc. and will achieve desired objects.
If Venus is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Saturn, one will have little happiness, little
wealth, will be reprobate, will marry a mean lady and will suffer from diseases.
37-42. VENUS IN GEMINI/VIRGO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Venus is in Gemini/Virgo and aspected by the Sun, one will be well disposed towards the king,
his own mother and wife, be learned and rich.
If Venus is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by the Moon, one will have dark eyes, beautiful
hair, be endowed with sleeping comforts, conveyances etc., be splendourous, beautiful in
appearance and be fortunate.
If Venus is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Mars, one will be highly sensuous, be fortunate
and will destroy his wealth through women.
If Venus is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be learned, sweet in
disposition, wealthy and endowed with conveyances and children, be fortunate and be leader
of men, or be a king.
If Venus is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be highly happy, be radiant,
courageous, learned and be a preceptor.
If Venus is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Saturn, one will be very miserable, insulted,
fickle-minded, green-eyed and be a dunce.

-- 93 of 203 --

94
43-48. VENUS IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Venus is in Cancer and aspected by the Sun, the natives wife will be attached to her duties, will
possess a spotless body, will be a kings daughter, (i.e. she will be of a rich heritage), one
short-tempered and will be endowed with wealth.
If Venus is in Cancer and is aspected by the Moon, one will keep his step-mother happy, will have
a daughter first and later on many sons, be happy, fortunate and beautiful.
If Venus is in Cancer and is aspected by Mars, one will be skilful in arts, be very rich, will suffer
on account of women, be fortunate and will promote the cause of his relatives.
If Venus is in Cancer and is aspected by Mercury, one will marry a learned woman, will suffer
miseries on account of his relatives, will wander, be wealthy and learned.
If Venus is in Cancer and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with many servants, sons,
happiness, relatives and friends and be dear to king.
If Venus is in Cancer and is aspected by Saturn, one will be subdued by women, be poor, base,
ugly, fickle-minded and unhappy.
49-54. VENUS IN LEO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Venus occupies Leo at the time of birth and is aspected by the Sun, one will be jealous, be dear
to the fair sex, libidinous will acquire money through women and will possess elephants.
If Venus is in Leo and is aspected by the Moon, one will present obsequies water to his
stepmother, will be miserable on account of women, be rich and will have various kinds of
mental disposition (i.e. be infirm in disposition).
If Venus is in Leo and is aspected by Mars, one will be a royal person, be famous, dear to
women, be affluent, fortunate and be attached to others wives.
If Venus is in Leo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be ever engaged in earning, be miserly in
disposition, be addicted to women, will join others wives, be courageous, crafty, false and
wealthy.
If Venus is in Leo and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with conveyances, wealth and
servants, will marry many women and be a kings minister.
If Venus is in Leo and is aspected by Saturn, one will be a king, or equal to a king, be famous, will
have abundant wealth and conveyances, will marry a prostitute (or a widow), be beautiful in
appearance and be miserable.
55-60. VENUS IN SAGITTARIUS/PISCES IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Venus occupies
Sagittarius/Pisces at birth and aspected by the Sun, one will be very short tempered, learned,
wealthy, be liked by all and will go to foreign countries.
If Venus is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by the Moon, one will be famous, be kingly,
will eat rich food, be distinguished and will possess incomparable strength.
If Venus is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Mars, one will be very much ill-disposed
towards women, will be both happy and miserable, be rich and will possess cows.

-- 94 of 203 --

95
If Venus is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Mercury, one will be endowed with all
kinds of robes, ornaments, foods and drinks and will possess plenty of money and horses
and cows, will possess many wives and many sons, be happy and be very wealthy.
If Venus is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Saturn, one will be always amassing
financial gains, be happy, will enjoy pleasures and abundant wealth and be fortunate.
61-66. VENUS IN SATURNS HOUSE IN ASPECTS TO OTHERS. Should Venus be in
Capricorn/Aquarius and be in aspect to the Sun, the native will be firm, very dear to females,
very wealthy, very happy and truthful and be courageous.
If Venus is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by the Moon, one will be very splendourous,
very valorous, very affluent and fortunate.
If Venus is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Mars, one will lose his spouse, will suffer
many evils and diseases, will undergo difficulties and later on be happy.
If Venus is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Mercury, one will be learned, rich, skilful
in sacred precepts, highly scholastic, truthful and happy.
If Venus is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Jupiter, one will enjoy robes and
garlands, be beautiful, will be skilful in music and musical instruments and will posses a good
wife.
If Venus is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Saturn, one will be endowed with
servants, conveyances and wealth, be dirty and will possess a black, beautiful and broad
physique.
Thus ends the 28th Ch. entitled Effects of Venus in Various Signs in Kalyana Varmas Saravali
Chapter 29.
Effects of Saturn in Various Rasis
1-2. SATURN IN ARIES.
If Saturn occupies Aries at the time of ones birth one will be miserable due to his vices and hard
labor, be deceitful will hate his relatives, be blameworthy, garrulous, reprobated, poor, bad in
appearance, ill-tempered, inimical to his people, will do base acts, be jealous and sinful.
3-4. If Saturn occupies Taurus at the time of ones birth,
he will be bereft of wealth, be a servant, will speak undesirable words, be untruthful, will win the
hearts of old women, will have bad friends, will be addicted to women, will serve other

-- 95 of 203 --

96
women, be not outspoken, will have strong sight, be related to numerous assignments and be
a fool.
5-6. If Saturn occupies Gemini,
one will contract debts and imprisonments, will toil, will have vanity in disposition will consecrate
by hymns and prayers, be bereft of virtues, be always in hide-out, be libidinous, cunning,
wicked and fond of wandering and of sports.
7-8. SATURN IN CANCER.
If Saturn is in Cancer, one will possess a beloved wife, be devoid of wealth in boyhood, will suffer
many diseases, be learned, motherless, soft-spoken, distinguished in acts, will always
contract diseases, will trouble others, be inimical to relatives, crooked, be kingly in his mid-life
and will enjoy growing pleasures.
9-10. SATURN IN LEO.
If Saturn occupies Leo, one will be interested in writing and reading, be skilful, be disdained,
devoid of virtues and wife, will live by servitude, be devoid of his own men and happiness, be
interested in doing base acts, ill-tempered, be mad with (undue) desires, will carry loads, will
toil hard and will have a wrinkled body.
11-12. SATURN IN VIRGO.
If Saturn occupies Virgo at birth the subject will resemble a eunuch, be very crafty, will depend on
others for food, be addicted to prostitutes, will have a few friends, be unacquainted with arts,
be desirous of indulging in ugly acts, will possess sons and wealth, be indolent, helpful to
others, will intent upon spoiling virgins and be cautious in his actions.
13-14. Saturn posited in Libra at birth
indicates, that the subject will be rich, soft-spoken, will earn money and honours from foreign
countries, be a king, or a scholar, will have his wealth protected by his relatives, be senior in
the circle, will attain a high status owing to his gracious speech in an assemblage, be good
and will join corrupt female dancers and prostitutes.
15-16. SATURN IN SCORPIO.
If Saturn occupies Scorpio at birth, the native will be hostile, be crooked, affected by poison and
weapons, very ill-tempered, miserly, egoistic, rich, capable of stealing others money, averse
to instruments played on festive occasions, malicious, very miserable and will face
destruction, misery and diseases.
17-18. SATURN IN SAGITTARIUS.
If Saturn occupies Sagittarius, one will be skilful in behaviour, teaching, Vedic meanings, learning
and denotation, (i.e. he will be best placed in these respects), be famous due to virtuous
children, family profession and his own virtues, will enjoy excellent affluence in his old age,
will speak less, will have many names and be soft in disposition.
19-20. If Saturn is posited at birth in Capricorn,

-- 96 of 203 --

97
the native will lord over the lands of others females, will be endowed with Vedic knowledge,
virtues and knowledge of many branches of fine arts, be excellent among his caste-men, be
honourable, will respect others, be famous, be interested in bathing and decoration, will be
skilful in performance, will live in foreign places, be courageous and be polite in behaviour.
21-22. If Saturn is in Aquarius,
the native will be a great liar, be eminent, be addicted to women and wine, be wicked, crafty, will
fall prey to evil friendship, be very ill-tempered, be averse to knowledge, conversation and
traditional law, be addicted to other women, be harsh in speech and will attempt at many
undertakings.
23-24. SATURN IN PISCES.
If Saturn occupies Pisces at birth, one will be fond of Sacrifices and arts, be chief among his
relatives and friends, be calm, will have increasing wealth, be skilful in policy-making, be
capable of diamond testing, be virtuous, modest and will later on acquire an authoritative
position.
25-30. SATURN IN ARIES/SCORPIO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Saturn occupies a Rasi of
Mars and is aspected by the Sun, one will be interested in agriculture, be very affluent, be
endowed with cows, buffaloes and horses, be fortunate and industrious.
If Saturn is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by the Moon, one will be fickle minded, base, will
join mean and ugly women and be devoid of happiness and wealth.
If Saturn is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Mars, one will kill animals, be base, be a
leader of robbers, be famous and be fond of (joining other) women, meat and wine.
If Saturn is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Mercury, one will be untruthful, not virtuous,
will eat much, be a famous thief and be devoid of happiness and riches.
If Saturn is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with happiness,
wealth and fortune, be a kings minister and be chief.
If Saturn is in Aries, or Scorpio and is aspected by Venus, one will be quite unsteady in
disposition, very ugly, will join other women and courtesans and be bereft of pleasures.
31-36. SATURN IN TAURUS/LIBRA IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. Should Saturn be in a Sign of
Venus and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be clear in speech, will lose wealth, be a
scholar, will eat in others houses and be weak in constitution.
If Saturn is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by the Moon, one will gain wealth through women,
will be honoured by ministers of kings, be dear to women and be endowed with family.
If Saturn is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Mars, one will be skilful in war preparations, but
will be away from war, will speak much and be endowed with wealth and family.
If Saturn is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Mercury one will always be jocularly disposed,
be equal to a neuter, will serve females and be base.

-- 97 of 203 --

98
If Saturn is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Jupiter, one will share happiness and misery of
others, will do others jobs, be dear to people, charitable and industrious.
If Saturn is in Taurus, or Libra and is aspected by Venus, one will be happy on account of women
and wine (i.e. will enjoy these), be endowed with gems, be very strong and be dear to the
king.
37-42. SATURN IN GEMINI/VIRGO AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Saturn occupies a Rasi of
Mercury at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will be devoid of happiness and
wealth, be virtuous, bereft of anger, will endure difficulties and be valorous.
If Saturn is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by the Moon, one will be equal to a king, will
possess a bright physique, will earn wealth and honour through women and will do womens
jobs.
If Saturn is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Mars, one will be a famous boxer, be stupefied,
will carry heavy loads and will possess an ugly body.
If Saturn is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Mercury, one will be rich, skilful in war, be a
dance master, a skilful singer and an expert in arts.
If Saturn is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be trustworthy in the kings
circle, will possess all kinds of (good) qualities, be liked by good men and will earn wealth
through his virtues.
If Saturn is in Gemini, or Virgo and is aspected by Venus, one will be skilful in beautifying women,
be a teacher of Yogas, or a saint and be dear to the fair sex.
43-48. SATURN IN CANCER IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Saturn occupies Cancer at birth and is aspected by the Sun, the native will lose his father in his
very boyhood be bereft of wealth, wife and happiness, will eat bad food and be sinful.
If Saturn is in Cancer and is aspected by the Moon, one will be a source of evil to his mother, be
wealthy and will be troubled by his co-born.
If Saturn is in Cancer and is aspected by Mars, one will enjoy kings wealth, be defective bodied,
will possess gold and gems, be endowed with a family and will have a bad group of relatives
and wife.
If Saturn is in Cancer and is aspected by Mercury, one will be hard-hearted, garrulous, will
conquer his enemies, will show vanity and will do noble acts.
If Saturn is in Cancer and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be endowed with lands, houses, friends,
sons, wealth, gems and wife.
If Saturn is in Cancer and is aspected by Venus, one is of a noble descent, but will be bereft of
beauty, grace and happiness.

-- 98 of 203 --

99
49-54. SATURN IN LEO IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Saturn occupies the Sun-owned Rasi and is aspected by the Sun himself, the native will be
devoid of wealth, happiness and nobility, will be a liar and a drunkard, will possess a bad
physique, be a servant and be very miserable.
If Saturn is in Leo and is aspected by the Moon, one will enjoy abundant wealth, precious stones
and women, be widely famous and be dear to the king.
If Saturn is in Leo and is aspected by Mars, one will everyday move from place to place, be
unfortunate, will live in fortresses and hills, be base and be bereft of wife and sons.
If Saturn is in Leo and is aspected by Mercury, one will not be outspoken, be lazy, poor, will do
females jobs, be dirty and miserable.
If Saturn is in Leo and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be chief and rich in his town, or among his
men, will be endowed with progeny and be trustworthy.
If Saturn is in Leo and is aspected by Venus, one will be averse to women, be splendourous, slow
(or tardy), happy, rich and will attain a good end.
55-60. SATURN IN JUPITERS RASHI AND IN ASPECT TO OTHERS. If Saturn occupies
Sagittarius, or Pisces at birth, in aspect to the Sun the native will be the father of others
children and through these children he will attain wealth, name, fame and honour.
If Saturn is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by the Moon, one will be bereft of mother, will
have two names and be endowed with wife, children and wealth.
If Saturn is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Mars, one will be troubled by windy
diseases, will dislike people, be sinful, mean, blameworthy etc.
If Saturn is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Mercury, one will be equal to a king, be
happy, be a preceptor, be honourable, rich and fortunate.
If Saturn is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be a king, or equal to a
king, or a minister, or an Army chief and be free from all kinds of danger.
If Saturn is in Sagittarius, or Pisces and is aspected by Venus, one will have two mothers and two
fathers, will live in forests and hills, will be unsteady and be endowed with many kinds of
assignments.
61-66. SATURN IN OWN HOUSE IN ASPECT TO OTHERS.
If Saturn is in Capricorn/Aquarius and is aspected by the Sun, he will be sick, will have an ugly
wife, will eat others food, be miserable, wandering in nature and will carry loads.
If Saturn is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by the Moon, one will be fickle-minded,
untruthful, sinful, will not have good terms with his mother, be rich and be sorrowful due to
wandering.
If Saturn is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Mars, one will be very valorous, famous,
be superior among great men and sharp.

-- 99 of 203 --

100
If Saturn is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Mercury, he will carry loads, be clouded
in mentality (or Tamasik in disposition), be good-looking, wandering-natured, learned, be not
quite wealthy and be fortunate.
If Saturn is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Jupiter, one will be famous for his good
qualities, be a king, or be of royal scion, long-lived and be free from diseases.
If Saturn is in Capricorn, or Aquarius and is aspected by Venus, one will be rich, addicted to other
women, fortunate, happy and will enjoy food and drinks.
Thus ends the 29th Ch. entitled Effects of Saturn in Various Rasis in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 30.
Effects of Planets in Bhavas
1. In order, that the effects of physique etc. for the various human beings are understood, I
explain below things relating to (various) Bhavas (of a horoscope) in a special manner.
2. The Sun in the Ascendant denotes, that the native will have less hair (on the head), be lazy in
function, given to anger, will have prominent personality, be honourable, will have weak sight
and coarse physique, be courageous, impatient and unkind. If the Ascendant is Cancer and
is occupied by the Sun, the native will have swollen eyes, if it be Aries with Sun therein, his
sight will be weak and in Leo the Sun makes him night -blind. One suffers poverty and loss of
children, if the Sun occupies Libra.
3. SUN IN 2nd. If the Sun is in the 2nd Bhava, the native will be endowed with servants and
quadrupeds, will suffer facial diseases, will be deprived of happiness and wealth and will lose
money through royal displeasure, or through thieves.
4. Should the Sun be in 3rd, the native will be valorous, strong, will lose co-born, be dear to
people, good-looking, very learned and will conquer his enemies.
5. Should the Sun be in 4th, the native will be devoid of conveyances and relatives, will suffer
heart diseases, will destroy paternal house and wealth and will serve a bad king.
6. If the Sun occupies the 5th, the native will be bereft of happiness, sons and wealth, will live by
husbandry, will move in hills and fortresses, be fickle-minded, scholarly, devoid of strength
and be short-lived.
7. If the Sun is in 6th, the native will be very libidinous, will have powerful digestive fire (capable of
digesting fast), be strong, affluent, famous for virtues and be either a king, or an Army chief.

-- 100 of 203 --

101
8. If the Sun is posited in 7th, the native will be poor, insulted, will suffer bodily diseases, royal
displeasures and imprisonment, will take to bad ways and will not be well-disposed to his
wife.
9. If the Sun occupies the 8th, the native will have deformed eyes, be devoid of wealth and
happiness, be short-lived and will suffer separation from his relatives.
10. If the Sun occupies the 9th, the native will be endowed with wealth, children and friends, will
be very interested in worshipping Gods and Brahmins, will not be well-disposed towards his
father and wife and be not calm.
11. Should the Sun be in 10th, the native will be extremely intelligent, rich, strong and will be
endowed with conveyances, relatives and sons, will succeed in his undertakings, be
valorous, unconquerable and great.
12. Should the Sun be in 11th, one will be interested in gathering money, be strong, will hate
others, be devoid of servants, be himself a servant, be devoid of affection, be modest and will
be successful in undertakings.
13. If the Sun is in 12th at birth, he will have a deformed physique, be one-eyed, fallen (morally),
will marry a barren lady, be inimical to his father, weak and mean.
14. The Moon in the Ascendant identical with Cancer, Taurus, or Aries indicates, that the native
will be liberal, beautiful, rich and enjoying pleasures greatly. The Moon in the Ascendant
identical with other Signs indicates, that the native will be intensely passionate, base, deaf,
distressed, dumb and will decline (in prosperity).
15. Should the Moon be in 2nd, the native will enjoy incomparable happiness and friends and be
wealthy. If the said Moon be Full, the native will be very affluent and will speak less.
16. Should the Moon be in 3rd, the native will protect his co-born, be always delighted, valorous
and will be endowed with learning, robes and food.
17. If the Moon be in 4th, the native will be endowed with relatives, paraphernalia and
conveyances, be charitable, fond of travelling by water and will neither be very happy nor be
miserable.
18. Should the Moon be in 5th, the native will be timid in disposition, will earn learning, clothes and
food, will have many sons and friends, be a scholar and be passionate.
19. If the Moon be in 6th, the native will suffer stomachial diseases. If it be the weak Moon, he will
be short-lived.
20. If the Moon is in 7th, the native will be amiable, happy, will possess a good physique and be
sensuously disposed. If the weak Moon is in 7th, the native will be pitiable and weak.
21. If the Moon is in 8th, the native will be very intelligent, very splendourous and will suffer from
diseases. If the Moon be weak, he will be short-lived.
22. If the Moon is in 9th, the native will be devoted to divine and paternal assignments, will be
endowed with happiness, wealth, intelligence and sons and will attract the fair sex.

-- 101 of 203 --

102
23. If the Moon occupies the 10th, the native will not suffer grief, be dutiful, successful in his
undertakings, affluent, pure, very strong, valorous and charitable.
24. Should the Moon occupy the 11th, the native will be wealthy, will have many sons, be long-
lived, will have attendants to serve, be intelligent, sharp, valorous and splendourous.
25. If the Moon occupies the 12th, the native will be odious, fallen in moral sense, mean, will suffer
eye diseases, be indolent, distressed (deformed), is born of others loins and will be insulted
at all times.
26. If Mars occupies the Ascendant, the native will be cruel, adventurous, dull-witted, short-lived,
honourable, courageous, will have an injured physique, be attractive in appearance and
fickle-minded.
27. If Mars occupies the 2nd, the native will be poor, will eat bad food, will possess an ugly face,
will join bad men and be bereft of learning.
28. If Mars be in 3rd, the native will be courageous, unconquerable, bereft of co-born, be
delighted, will have all virtues and be famous.
29. If Mars is posited in 4th, the native will be devoid of relatives, paraphernalia and conveyances,
be very miserable, will live in others houses and be distressed.
30. If Mars occupies the 5th, the native will be devoid of happiness, wealth and sons, be fickle-
minded, be a talebearer, will incur evils, be wicked, distressed and mean.
31. If Mars occupies the 6th, the native will be highly libidinous, will have powerful digestive fire,
be beautiful, tall, strong and great among his relatives.
32. If Mars is posited in 7th, the native will lose his wife, will suffer from diseases, will take to bad
ways, be miserable, sinful, devoid of wealth, distressed and emaciated.
33. If Mars occupies the 8th, the native will suffer from diseases, be short-lived, will possess an
ugly, or deformed body, will do base acts and will suffer grief.
34. If Mars occupies the 9th, the native will not be skillful in acts, be odious, will kill living beings,
be not virtuous, be very sinful and honoured by the king.
35. If Mars occupies the 10th, the native will be proficient in his acts, be valorous, unconquerable,
will serve important people, be endowed with sons and happiness and be very courageous.
36. If Mars occupies the 11th, the native will be virtuous, happy, courageous, endowed with
wealth, grains and sons and be devoid of sorrow.
37. Should Mars be in 12th, the native will have diseased eyes, will fall in moral sense, will kill his
wife, be a talebearer, be fierce and will contract humility and imprisonment.
38. Should Mercury occupy the Ascendant, the native will have a flawless physique, be intelligent,
will know proper(beneficial) place and time, be well-versed in poetry and mathematics, be a
skillful and sweet speaker and be long-lived.
39. If Mercury is in the 2nd, the native will earn wealth through his own wisdom, will enjoy food and
drinks, be auspicious in speech and will have good course of conduct.

-- 102 of 203 --

103
40. If Mercury occupies the 3rd, the native will always toil hard, be devoid of near and dear, skilful,
endowed with co-born, very cunning and fickle-minded.
41. If Mercury is in 4th, the native will be endowed with money and relatives, be fortunate, will
have conveyances, all paraphernalia and relatives and be very learned.
42. If Mercury occupies the 5th, the native will be an expert in Mantras (sacred spells) and
Abhicara (malevolent spells), will have many sons, be endowed with learning, happiness and
efficacy and be delighted.
43. If Mercury occupies the 6th, the native will always be successful in litigations and disputes, will
contract diseases, be indolent, not given to anger, be harsh in speech and much insulted.
44. If Mercury is in 7th, the natives wife will be very learned, beautiful in appearance, will not be of
good descent, will promote quarrels and be very affluent. The native himself will be very
great.
45. If Mercury occupies the 8th, the native will win famous names (titles), be strong, long-lived, will
support his family and be equal to a king, or will become a justice.
46. If Mercury occupies the 9th, the native will be very affluent, scholarly, of good conduct/habits,
be eloquent in speech, skilful of a great order and be virtuous.
47. If Mercury occupies the 10th, the native will possess distinguished intelligence, will perform
distinguished acts, will attain fruition in undertakings, be very learned, courageous, strong
and will be endowed with various kinds of ornaments.
48. If Mercury occupies the 11th, the native will be rich, be an amicable worker, be learned, happy
and endowed with wide enjoyments, be long-lived and famous.
49. Should Mercury be in the 12th, the native will be able to keep up his promise, be indolent, be
humiliated, be a good speaker, be learned, pitiable and cruel.
50. If Jupiter occupies the 1st, the native will be attractive in appearance, energetic, long-lived, will
act after assessing consequences, be learned, courageous and great.
51. Jupiter in the 2nd. If Jupiter occupies the 2nd, the native will be rich, will enjoy good food, be an
eloquent speaker, be fortunate, be charitable and will have a beautiful body and face.
52. If Jupiter occupies the 3rd, the native will be greatly humiliated, be vile, ever successful, will
have digestive deficiencies, be defeated by women and be sinful in acts.
53. If Jupiter occupies the 4th, the native will be endowed with relatives, paraphernalia,
conveyance, happiness, intelligence, pleasures and wealth, be great and be a source of
misery to his enemies.
54. If Jupiter occupies the 5th, the native will have abundant happiness, many sons and friends,
be learned, courageous, wealthy and will always be happy.
55. If Jupiter is in the 6th, the native will lack digestive fire and masculine virile, be humiliated,
weak, indolent, will become famous on account of females, will destroy his enemies and be
widely famous.

-- 103 of 203 --

104
56. If Jupiter occupies the 7th, the native will be charming, will acquire a beautiful wife, be greater
than his father, be an eloquent speaker, a poet, a superior person and be learned and
famous.
57. If Jupiter occupies the 8th, the native will be insulted, long-lived, be a servant, will serve his
own people, be pitiable and will have union with dirty women.
58. If Jupiter is in 9th, the native will be attached to divine and paternal duties, be learned,
fortunate, be a kings minister, or a leader and be chief.
59. If Jupiter occupies the 10th, the native will attain successful beginning in his undertaking, be
honourable, effortful and will be endowed with abundant welfare, happiness, wealth, relatives,
conveyances and fame.
60. If Jupiter occupies the 11th, the native will enjoy many gains, many conveyances and many
servants, be virtuous, but will have limited education and few sons.
61. If Jupiter occupies the 12th, the native will be indolent, odious, be devoid of speech and luck
and will be in all probability in servitude.
62. If Venus is in Ascendant, the native will possess beautiful eyes, face and physique, be happy,
long-lived, timid and attractive to females.
63. If Venus is in the 2nd, the native will enjoy abundant food, drinks and wealth, will derive
excellent pleasures, be endowed with good speech and will amass great wealth.
64. If Venus occupies the 3rd, the native will be happy, rich, conquered by women, be vile, little
enthusiastic and will be bereft of luck and paraphernalia.
65. If Venus occupies the 4th, the native will be endowed with relatives, friends and happiness, be
splendourous, will have conveyances and paraphernalia, be beautiful, rich and fortunate.
66. If Venus is posited in the 5th, the native will be endowed with happiness, sons and friends, be
fond of sexual union, be very affluent, full of everything and be a minister, or a justice.
67. If Venus occupies the 6th, the native will greatly dislike his wife, will have many foes, be
devoid of wealth, be very much startled and be mean.
68. If Venus occupies the 7th, the native will be very beautiful, be happy with his wife, will enjoy
great riches, be devoid of quarrels and be fortunate.
69. If Venus is in the 8th, the native will be long-lived, will enjoy incomparable happiness, be very
rich, be equal to a king and moment after moment will feel delighted.
70. If Venus occupies the 9th, the native will possess a spotless and broad physique, be endowed
with wealth, charitable, wife, sexual pleasures and friendship and will honour Gods, guests
and preceptors/elders.
71. Should Venus occupy the 10th, the native will earn success in litigations and will be endowed
with happiness, sexual unions, honour, wealth, fame and great wisdom.
72. If Venus is positioned in 11th, the native will have obedient servants, be bereft of all kinds of
misery and will gain abundantly.

-- 104 of 203 --

105
73. Should Venus be in 12th, the native will be indolent, happy, corpulent, fallen in moral sense,
will eat cleansed food, will be skilful in providing sleeping comforts and attendants and will be
won over by women.
74. If Saturn happens to be in the Ascendant identical with exaltation, or own House, the native
will equal a king in status, or will head a country, or city. If Saturn is in the Ascendant in other
Rasis, then his own, or exaltation Rasi, the planet will give misery in boyhood, dirty
disposition and indolence.
75. If Saturn occupies the 2nd, the native will have an ugly face, will enjoy worldly prosperity, be
devoid of his own men, will render justice, will later on (in the course of his life) go to other
countries and will earn money and conveyances.
76. If Saturn occupies the 3rd, the native will be dark in complexion, will maintain physical
cleanliness, be base, will have indolent attendants, be courageous, charitable and will have
great intelligence.
77. SATURN IN THE 4th. If Saturn occupies the 4th Bhava, the native will suffer heart disease, or
be broken-hearted, be devoid of relatives, conveyances, wealth, intelligence and happiness,
will suffer sickness in boyhood and will have (prominent) nails and hair.
78. SATURN IN THE 5th. Should Saturn occupy the 5th Bhava, the native will be bereft of
happiness, sons, friends, intelligence and kindness, be agitated and be poor.
79. If Saturn occupies the 6th, the native will be very licentious, be beautiful, courageous, will eat
abundantly, be crooked and will conquer many of his enemies.
80. If Saturn is posited in the 7th, the native will always be subjected to ill health, will lose his wife,
be bereft of wealth, will present himself ugly, be sinful and will do very mean acts.
81. If Saturn occupies the 8th, the native will suffer from leprosy and fistula in the anus, or
pudendum, will have short life and will fail in his undertakings.
82. If Saturn occupies the 9th, the native will be devoid of religious merits, will not have much
wealth, be bereft of co-born, sons and happiness and will cause sorrow to others.
83. If Saturn occupies the 10th, the native will be wealthy, learned, valorous and be a minister, or
a justice, or be the leader of a group, city, or village.
84. If Saturn occupies the 11th, the native will be long-lived, endowed with lasting riche s, be
courageous, will have knowledge of arts, be devoid of sickness and be endowed with money,
people and wealth.
85. If Saturn occupies the 12th, the native will be distressed, fallen in moral sense, talkative, will
have defective eyesight, be unkind, shameless, will spend much and be insulted.
86-81. If malefics occupy various Bhavas (other than 6th, 8th and 12th), they bring harm to the
Bhavas, while benefics increase their potency. Malefics are auspicious in evil Houses, i.e. 6th,
8th and 12th, while benefics prove adverse in these Bhavas. According the strength of
Yogakaraka planets, their beneficial relationship, friendly/inimical aspects etc. and position in

-- 105 of 203 --

106
exaltation/debilitation, the (good, or bad) results of Bhavas can vary (i.e. be maximum,
medium, or nil).
Thus ends the 30th Ch. entitled Effects of Planets in Bhavas in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.
Chapter 31.
Two Planets in Angles
1.Now explained are effects of two planet conjunctions in the Ascendant, the 4th, the 7th and the
10th.
2-5. SUN-MOON CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Sun and Moon occupy the Ascendant, the native will suffer grief regarding parents, will be
devoid of honour, sons and wealth, be insulted and miserable.
If the Sun and Moon join in the 4th Bhava, the native will be deprived of relatives, happiness and
sons, will suffer penury and will be a great dunce.
If the Sun and Moon join in the 7th Bhava, he will be devoid of friends and sons and be insulted by
females.
If the Sun and Moon join in the 10th Bhava, he will possess a beautiful physique, be an Army
chief, be endowed with the quality of Rajas, or passion, be unkind, crooked and will destroy
his enemies.
6-9. SUN-MARS CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Sun and Mars join in the Ascendant, the person will be bilious, be bold in war, short-
tempered, will have injured body, be cruel, crafty and harsh.
If the Sun and Mars join in the 4th, he will be devoid of relatives and wealth, be bereft of all kinds
of happiness and be agitated.
If the Sun and Mars join in the 7th, he will suffer from separation from his wife, be insulted on
account of females and will be fond of moving in foreign places.
If the Sun and Mars join in the 10th, the native will face failure in his undertakings, be a servant,
be emotional, be a principal employee with the king and be always distressed.
10-13. SUN-MERCURY CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Sun and Mercury are in the Ascendant, the native will be very learned and garrulous, will
have hard limbs, be fond of adventures, be wise and be long-lived.
If the Sun and Mercury are in the 4th, the native will be equal to a king, be famous, will keep up
his promise, will be endowed with riches equal to that of Kubera (the God of Wealth in Hindu
Mythology) and will have a corpulent body and crooked nose.

-- 106 of 203 --

107
If the Sun and Mercury are in the 7th, the native will meet his death due to murder, or
imprisonment, will not keep up his word, be a great miser, bereft of sexual pleasures and be
a thief.
If the Sun and Mercury are in the 10th, he will be famous in the entire world, will own elephants
and horses and be a king, provided none of these two is in debilitation.
14-17. SUN-JUPITER CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Sun and Jupiter join in the Ascendant, the native will be virtuous, be a minister, or an Army
chief, or be sagely in disposition and will be endowed with learning, wealth, pleasures and
fame.
If the Sun and Jupiter join in the 4th, he will be interested in Vedas, Justice and poetry, be
eloquent, virtuous, fortunate and will be endowed with servants.
If the Sun and Jupiter join in the 7th, he will subdue to women out of sexual passion, will dislike his
father, be endowed with gold, ruby, silver and pearls and will possess a defect-free body.
If the Sun and Jupiter join in the 10th, he will be endowed with fame, happiness, honour and
wealth and will become a king though belonging to a base lineage.
18-21. SUN-VENUS CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Sun and Venus join in the Ascendant, the native will be fond of quarrels, be immodest, will
take to bad conduct, be sorrowful, mean and be devoid of wealth and women.
If the Sun and Venus join in the 4th, one will serve others, be sorrowful, will fill himself with hatred
towards others and will suffer penury.
One will be insulted by women, be devoid of wealth, will have a corpulent body, will wander in
hills and forests, if the Sun be in the 7th along with Venus.
If the Sun and Venus join in the 10th, he will be engaged in trade, be a kings minister, be skillful in
Shastras, arts etc. and will enjoy happiness of wealth and conveyances.
22-25. SUN-SATURN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
Should the Sun and Saturn be together in the Ascendant at birth, the native is born of a
blameworthy mother, will have blameworthy conduct, or profession, will always be of dirty
disposition and be sinful.
Should the Sun and Saturn be together in the 4th House, the native will be base in disposition, will
be synonym of penury and poverty and will be humiliated among his relatives.
Should the Sun and Saturn be together in the 7th House, the native will be inactive (manda has
other meanings, like stupid, foolish, tardy, indifferent, weak-brained, addicted to drinking,
defective etc.), indolent, unfortunate, devoid of a female and of wealth, will hunt animals and
be highly dullwitted.
Should the Sun and Saturn be together in the 10th, one will serve in low position in foreign
countries (i.e. places not of his own), will earn wealth through kings sometimes, but will lose
the same in theft and be always poor.

-- 107 of 203 --

108
26-29. MOON-MARS CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
The native, who has the Moon and Mars together in the Ascendant will have defects of blood,
digestive fire and bile, will be a king (i.e. will be wealthy) and will be harsh.
The native, who has the Moon and Mars together in the 4th House, the native will incur grief, be
devoid of wealth, happiness, progeny and relatives and be defective of some limb.
The Moon and Mars together in the 7th denotes, that the person concerned will be base, be after
others money, be garrulous, untruthful and jealous.
The Moon and Mars together in the 10th will make the person possess the wealth of Army
consisting of horses, elephants and bipeds and brave.
30-33. MOON-MERCURY CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
Should the Moon and Mercury be together in the Ascendant, the native will possess happiness,
intelligence, strength, fortune and splendour, be talkative and very skillful.
Should the Moon and Mercury be together in the 4th, one will be endowed with relatives, friends,
progeny, happiness, valour, gold and precious stones and be fortunate.
Should the Moon and Mercury be together in the 7th, one will be valorous, be dear to king, or be a
king himself, be famous, be a great poet and be soft in disposition.
Should the Moon and Mercury be together in the 10th, the subject will be honourable, be wealthy
and very famous, be a royal minister, will grieve during the last leg of his life and be devoid of
relatives.
34-37. MOON-JUPITER CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Moon joins Jupiter in the Ascendant, the person concerned will be a king, will possess large
and broad chest, will have many sons, friends and wives and will be endowed with a good
physique and with relatives.
If the Moon joins Jupiter in the 4th indicate, that one will be a minister, or be of royal status, be
endowed with happiness, relatives and great riches (or prowess) and will master many
Shastras.
If the Moon joins Jupiter in the 7th will make one very learned, kingly, an expert in arts, a good
businessman, dear to king, wealthy and prosperous.
If the Moon joins Jupiter in the 10th this conjunction gives learning, charitable disposition, wealth,
honour and fame. Further he will be soft, will possess long arms and will be revered by all.
38-41. THE MOON-VENUS CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Moon and Venus join in the Ascendant, the native will derive happiness through association
with courtesans, be splendourous, be agreeable to elders and will possess garlands, clothes
and scents.
If the Moon and Venus join in the 4th will make one derive happiness through females, earn
wealth through water, dear to people and enjoy abundant pleasures.

-- 108 of 203 --

109
If the Moon and Venus join in the 7th, one will join many women, will not have much wealth and
not many sons, be an intellectual and will leave a royal history behind.
If the Moon and Venus join in the 10th will be endowed with honour, command and riches, be a
king, or a minister, be famous and will be endowed with many people.
42-45. THE MOON-SATURN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If the Moon and Saturn join in the Ascendant, the native will be in servitude, be base, given to
anger, be miserly, sleepy, lazy and sinful.
If the Moon and Saturn join in the 4th, one will earn through water, pearls and boats, be engaged
in excavation (or in mines etc.), be excellent and agreeable to others.
If the Moon and Saturn join in the 7th, the subject will be devoid of wife, be supreme among his
townsmen and be honoured by the king.
If the Moon and Saturn join in the 10th, the person concerned will win the enemies with his Army
of horses, be famous, is a bad womans son and will be head of men.
46. DISPOSITION OF THE MOON.
If the Moon is conjunct benefics she will always prove beneficial.
If the Moon joins Mars/Saturn, she is always inauspicious; this does not apply to her joining
Mars/Saturn in the 10th so, that the native becomes an Army chief.
47-50. MARS-MERCURY CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
One, who has Mars and Mercury in conjunction in the Ascendant will be murderous (or cruel, or
mischievous), be skillful in dealing with jobs related to fire, be a metallurgist/mineralogist, be
industrious, be an ambassador (or a messenger) and will enjoy concealed/secret properties.
If Mars and Mercury are conjunct in the 4th, one will be devoid of relatives, but endowed with
friends, wealth, food, pleasures and conveyances and will be discarded by his own people.
If Mars and Mercury are conjunct in the 7th, one will wander from country to country (aimlessly),
will serve base people, be skillful in arguments and will lose his first wife.
If Mars and Mercury are conjunct in the 10th denotes, that the person will be an Army chief, be
valorous, crafty, very cruel, dear to king and courageous.
51-54. MARS-JUPITER CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If Mars and Jupiter are in conjunction in the Ascendant, one will be a minister, will possess prime
virtues, become famous in the front of charity and will be ever enthusiastic.
If Mars and Jupiter are in conjunction in the 4th, one will be endowed with relatives and friends,
will have firm wealth, be happy, will serve the king and be devoted to the Almighty and elders.
If Mars and Jupiter are in conjunction in the 7th, one will be inclined to wander in hills, forts, water -
resorts and forests, will have good relatives, be valorous and will be devoid of spouse.
If Mars and Jupiter are in conjunction in the 10th will confer kinghood, wide fame, abundant wealth
and attendants and extreme skill at work.

-- 109 of 203 --

110
55-58. MARS-VENUS CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
Should Mars and Venus join in the Ascendant the native will be addicted to prostitutes, will
indulge in bad acts, will lose wealth on account of females and will not live long.
If the conjunction of Venus and Mars occur in the 4th, he will be bereft of relatives, friends and
progeny, will be tortured by mental pressures and will be very miserable.
Should Mars and Venus join in the 7th denotes, that he will wander after women, will have a bad
history, will experience abundant grief on account of females and will posses mean conduct.
Should Mars and Venus join in the 10th, one will be a master of archery, be intelligent, be
endowed with learning, wealth, robes and flowers, be famous and be a kings minister.
59-62. MARS-SATURN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If Mars and Saturn are together in the Ascendant, one will be successful in wars, will hate his
mother and will face curtailed longevity and declining fortunes.
If Mars and Saturn are together in the 4th, one will be bereft of food, drinks and happiness, be
given up by his own men, be devoid of friends and be sinful.
If Mars and Saturn are together in the 7th indicates, that the native will be devoid of conjugal
happiness and progeny, be indigent, sick, will house vices in him, be insulted by people and
be a tale bearer.
If Mars and Saturn are together in the 10th, one will acquire wealth through king, but be punished
for a great crime and be a liar.
63-66. MERCURY-JUPITER IN ANGLES IN CONJUNCTION.
If Mercury and Jupiter be together in the Ascendant, one will have an auspicious (pleasing)
appearance, will be endowed with auspicious (excellent) qualities, be learned, honoured by
the king, will conquer his five senses and will enjoy conveyances, happiness and pleasures.
If Mercury and Jupiter be together in the 4th, one will be blessed with relatives, friends, happiness,
females, fortune, wealth, royal favour and skill.
If Mercury and Jupiter be together in the 7th denotes, that one will obtain a virtuous wife, will
destroy his enemies, will be endowed with many friends, people, wealth and prowess and will
be famous on account of his father.
If Mercury and Jupiter be together in the 10th, these two planets together will make one a minister,
or a king, honourable, commanding, famous, modest and interested in Vedas.
67-70. MERCURY-VENUS IN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If Mercury and Venus join in the Ascendant, one will have a good physique (i.e. beautiful
physique), be learned, always fortunate, be honoured by the king, be very wealthy, pious of
Brahmins and Almighty and be famous.
If Mercury and Venus join in the 4th, he will be endowed with sons, friends and relatives, be
fortunate, be a minister, or a king and be endowed with happiness. (Kalyana apart from
meaning happiness, indicates excellence, fortune, auspiciousness etc.)

-- 110 of 203 --

111
If Mercury and Venus join in the 7th, he will be surrounded with many good women, be endowed
with pleasures, money and sovereignty, be happy and be dear to king.
If Mercury and Venus join in the 10th, he will be endowed with knowledge of the science of ethics,
(or Policy, or Politics), be a king, be virtuous, will not patronize base men, be wealthy, will
attain good beginning in his undertakings and be skillful.
71-74. MERCURY-SATURN IN ANGLES IN CONJUNCTION.
If Mercury and Saturn be in conjunction in the Ascendant, one will have a dirty body, be sinful, be
bereft of learning, wealth and vehicles, be short-lived and will have declining fortunes.
If Mercury and Saturn be in conjunction in the 4th, he will be devoid of drinks, food and relatives,
be rejected by his own people, be foolish, devoid of friends and be sinful.
If Mercury and Saturn be in conjunction in the 7th indicates, that he will be the servant of a rich
person, be foolish, will harm others, be not virtuous, be very dirty and be not truthful.
If Mercury and Saturn be in conjunction in the 10th, he will conquer the entire band of his
enemies, will be endowed with relatives, friends, conveyances and wealth and will honour the
Almighty and Brahmins.
75-78. JUPITER-VENUS IN ANGLES IN CONJUNCTION.
With Jupiter and Venus in the Ascendant, the native even though a Brahmin by birth will on
account of his preceptors teaching become a king, or equal to a king.
With Jupiter and Venus in the 4th the native will win all his enemies, will be endowed with
relatives, friends, conveyances, wealth and will honour the Almighty and Brahmins.
With Jupiter and Venus in the 7th, one will acquire a virtuous female, be endowed with precious
stones and riches, will acquire happiness, fame and female issue and will procure excellent
conveyances and enjoy pleasures.
With Jupiter and Venus in the 10th, he will widely command, be widely honoured and endowed,
wide riches, be a king, will have many servants and be virtuous.
79-82. JUPITER-SATURN IN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If Saturn and Jupiter are together in the Ascendant at birth, the native will be languid with passion
(or intoxication), hard-hearted, is of a noble descent, learned, rich, will have limited happiness
and be wicked.
If Saturn and Jupiter are together in the 4th, he will be a kings minister, be bereft of diseases, be
successful, be endowed with relatives and friends, will have the wealth of affection (i.e.
extremely affectionate) and be happy.
If Saturn and Jupiter are together in the 7th, he will lose wealth due to enmity with females, be
courageous, will possess vices, be crafty, will not be endowed with pleasing appearance, will
be greedy of paternal property and be foolish.

-- 111 of 203 --

112
If Saturn and Jupiter are together in the 10th, he will be dear to the king, be a king himself, will
have limited progeny, be in transitory (or steady) and will possess quadrupeds and
conveyances.
83-86. VENUS-SATURN IN CONJUNCTION IN ANGLES.
If Venus and Saturn join together in the Ascendant, one will be seeking union with all women (i.e.
he will enjoy many women), will possess a splendourous body, be endowed with happiness,
pleasures and wealth, will have many servants and be highly bereaved.
If Venus and Saturn join together in the 4th, he will gain abundantly through friends, be highly
honoured by his relatives and will be close to the king.
If Venus and Saturn join together in the 7th denotes, that the native will be bestowed with women,
precious stones, wealth, fame and sexual pleasures.
If Venus and Saturn join together in the 10th, he will be devoid of all duals (i.e. good and bad, grief
and happiness, poverty and wealth etc.), will perform excellent acts and be a famous
minister.
87. EFFECTS OF MORE NUMBER OF PLANETS.
Similarly the effects of conjunctions of 3, 4, 5, or 6 planets in Angles should be suitably
understood.
Thus ends the 31st Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF TWO PLANETS IN ANGLES in Kalyana
Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 32.
Ninth House And Effects Thereof
1.Leaving aside all the other Houses, one should first analyze the House of fortune (or
Bhagyasthana) for a native can not obtain benefic results without fortune. So narrated below
is an account in this direction.
2.Bhagyasthana (House of fortune) is that, which is the 9th counted from the Ascendant, or from
the Moon. Effects of the 9th counted from the stronger of the Ascendant and the Moon will
come to pass.
3.The House occupied by the Lord of the 9th and the planet occupying the 9th will have a say on
ones fortune. Their strength, or weakness will indicate the fortunes.
4. If the 9th House is aspected, or occupied by its own Lord, the native will make his fortunes in
his own country. If others aspect, or join the House in question, the dawn of fortune will be
elsewhere.

-- 112 of 203 --

113
5.The native will be extremely lucky, if a planet lends full aspect to the 9th from the 3rd, 5th, or
Ascendant. The planet in question should be strong in the process.
6-7. JUPITER IN THE 9th AND ASPECTS THERETO. If Jupiter is placed in the 9th, the native will
become a minister.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by the Sun, one will be equal to a king.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by the Moon one will be splendourous and will enjoy
pleasures.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by Mars, he will be endowed with gold.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by Mercury one will be affluent.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by Venus one will have quadrupeds, conveyances and
wealth.
If Jupiter is in the 9th and is aspected by Saturn one will possess immovable properties, asses
and buffaloes.
8-12. JUPITER IN THE 9th IN ASPECT TO TWO PLANETS.
If the 9th House is occupied by Jupiter and aspected by both the Sun and Mars, the native will be
endowed with sovereignty, precious stones, gold, courage, excellence, strength,
conveyances and servants.
If the 9th House is occupied by Jupiter and aspected by both the Sun and the Moon, he will be
blessed with plentifulness (of all things), be devoted to his parents, be famous, be equal to a
king and will have plurality of wives.
If the Sun and Mercury jointly aspect the Jupiter in the 9th, he will be graceful, splendourous,
fortunate, be endowed with an excellent wife, ornaments and wealth and will be expert in
poetry and arts.
If the 9th House is occupied by Jupiter and aspected by both the Sun and Venus, one will be
festive in disposition, will have (wide) social activities and will be endowed with cows,
buffaloes, elephants etc.
If the Sun and Saturn aspect Jupiter in the 9th, one will be head of a country, town, or group, be
famous, learned, virtuous, affluent and will have a tendency of accumulating.
13-16. JUPITER IN THE 9TH IN ASPECTS TO TWO PLANETS (continued). If Jupiter occupies
the 9th in aspect to both Mars and the Moon, one will be an Army chief, or a minister and be
endowed with various kinds of happiness.
If Jupiter occupies the 9th in aspect to both Mercury and the Moon, he will enjoy excellent houses,
sleeping comforts and pleasures, be splendourous, patient and very int elligent.
If Jupiter occupies the 9th in aspect to both the Moon and Venus, he will be very rich, dutiful,
valorous, attached to others wives and be devoid of sons.

-- 113 of 203 --

114
If Jupiter occupies the 9th in aspect to both the Moon and Saturn, he will be very lascivious,
endowed with permanent livelihood, will live in foreign places, be argumentative, be a liar and
be not virtuous.
17-22. JUPITER IN THE 9th IN ASPECT TO TWO PLANETS (continued). If Jupiter is in the 9th
and is in aspect to both Mars and Mercury, one will be highly learned, very virtuous, will keep
up his word and will have a pleasing appearance.
If Mars and Venus jointly aspect Jupiter in the 9th, one will be wealthy, learned, will live in foreign
countries, be sincere, very skilful and cruel.
If Mars and Saturn jointly aspect Jupiter in the 9th, the native will be base, tale bearing, spiteful,
living in foreign places and will be in the company of unsteady people.
If Mercury and Venus jointly aspect Jupiter in the 9th, one will be an artisan, be very virtuous,
learned, fortunate, will keep up his promise and will possess a pleasing appearance.
If Mercury and Saturn jointly aspect Jupiter in the 9th, the native will be fortunate, learned,
eloquent in speech, pleasing, courageous, happy and modest.
23.Jupiter in the 9th in aspect to 9th Lord
will make one a king. The effects stated in connection with Jupiters position in the 9th and aspects
thereof are valid, only when no other planets (than the mentioned) aspect.
24.If all the planets aspect Jupiter posited in the 9th, the native will possess excellent guise,
virtues, splendour, sovereignty and abundant riches.
25.If the 9th is occupied by a strong benefic, it confers kingdom, according to the wise, in addition
to movable properties, wealth, grains, righteousness and increased longevity.
26.AFFLICTION TO THE 9th. If the 9th House gives place to a debilitated planet, or a combust
planet, or a malefic planet and be without a benefics aspect, the native will be devoid of
(moral) strength, wealth and fame and be dirty.
27.If the malefic in the 9th is the owner of that House,
then it proves auspicious. And with a benefics aspect it is more auspicious.
28.If Full Moon is in the 9th, while Mars, Saturn and Mercury are strong the native is born to a
king.
29.If a planet is exalted in the 9th, an excellent person is born with plentifulness of wealth and
gold. And, if a benefic aspects the exalted planet in question, the native will be a supreme
ruler, destroyer of the band of his enemies, will possess divine splendour and great fame.
30-35. EFFECTS OF OTHER PLANETS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SUN IN THE 9th
HOUSE. If the Sun and the Moon are together in the 9th, the native will have a short life, will
be afflicted by eye diseases, be rich fortunate and fond of quarrels.
If Mars and the Sun be together in the 9th, the native will experience many kinds of miseries, be
fond of quarrels, be fierce, courageous, dear to king and be skillful.

-- 114 of 203 --

115
If Mercury and the Sun are together in the 9th, one will be skillful, miserable, will have many
enemies and suffer from many diseases.
If Jupiter and the Sun be in conjunction in the 9th, the native will be endowed with wealth, will
obtain abundant paternal wealth, be long-lived, very courageous and be a worthy person.
Should Venus and the Sun be together, in the 9th, he will incur diseases and will be endowed with
scents, garlands, ornaments, robes and decorative articles.
If Saturn and the Sun be so placed one will be rich, will suffer from eye diseases, be fond of
quarrels and be short-lived.
36-40. EFFECTS OF OTHERS JOINING THE MOON IN THE 9th. If Mars joins the Moon in the
9th, one will be devoid of mother (i.e. will lose his mother early), will have a deformed body
and with ulcers and be wealthy.
If Mercury joins the Moon in the 9th, he will have knowledge of Shastras, be scholarly, will have
some physical deformity, will be excellent among men, will talk much and be famous.
If Jupiter joins the Moon, he will be distinguished, will be fortunate, will be endowed with abundant
riches, will be always happy and be courageous.
If Venus be the accompanying planet, he will suffer from diseases, will marry an unchaste lady,
be plentiful, will have a step-mother and will be in a ministers custody (i.e. will serve a
significant person).
Should Saturn join the Moon in the 9th, he will be devoid of moral merits, be sinful and will have a
fallen mother.
41-44. EFFECTS OF MARS JOINING OTHERS IN THE 9th.
If Mars be in the company of Mercury in the 9th, one will be chief of men, will be always emotional,
be fortunate, will enjoy pleasures and be skillful in Shastras.
If it is Jupiter with whom Mars is conjunct in the 9th, one will be endowed with wealth and grains,
be honourable, be troubled by sickness and will be pained with bodily wounds.
If Venus is joining Mars in the 9th, one will live in foreign places, be argumentative, cruel, will hate
women, be ungrateful and will indulge in falsehood.
If Saturn is with Mars in the 9th, one will be sinful, will be of dirty conduct, be interested in other
housewives, be deprived of wealth and happiness and will not be with his own men.
45-47. MERCURY IN CONJUNCTION WITH OTHERS IN THE 9th. If Mercury is with Jupiter in
the 9th, one will be learned in Shastras, be a scholar, be wealthy, will speak sweetly, be an
artisan and an efficacious and excellent person.
Venus and Mercury in the 9th denotes, that one will be famous, very learned, valorous, fortunate,
skillful in speech and be fond of songs.
If Saturn and Mercury are in the 9th in conjunction, he will suffer from diseases, be very rich, be
endowed with dear and near, be skillful, envious and be garrulous.

-- 115 of 203 --

116
48-49. JUPITER JOINING OTHERS IN THE 9th. If Venus and Jupiter be together in the 9th, one
will be a leader of men, be long-lived, eloquent and will be endowed with many kinds of
happiness and wealth.
If Jupiter and Saturn are in the 9th, the native will enjoy wealth and gems, be honourable, will
have diseases to trouble him and be devoid of his own men.
50. VENUS-SATURN CONJUNCTION IN THE 9th. This conjunction denotes, that the native will
be sickly, will have many sons, be dear to king, famous and virtuous.
51.In analyzing the said effects, the Signs and aspects involved should be skilfully understood
according to Shastras and results declared accordingly, so say the learned.
52. EFFECTS OF 3 PLANETS IN CONJUNCTION IN 9th. If the Sun, Moon and Mars are together
in the 9th, one will lose his parents in his very boyhood, be base, odious and hurtful.
53. If the Sun, Moon and Mercury join in the 9th, the native will be a eunuch in appearance, be
miserable, will hate all people and be valorous and truthful.
54. If the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter join in the 9th, one will be excellent and will possess
conveyances, wealth and happiness.
55. If Venus, the Moon and the Sun be together in the 9th, one will lose all his happiness and
wealth due to quarrels with females, be dear to king, will have knowledge of politics and will
be an eloquent speaker.
56. If the Sun, the Moon and Saturn join in the 9th, one will be very strong, will have cruel
conduct, will serve others and will hate others.
57. If the Sun, Mars and Mercury be in the 9th, one will be an eloquent speaker, be akin to a
snake, when in anger, be fond of quarrels, be hard-hearted and will be interested in living in
foreign countries.
58. If the Sun, Jupiter and Mars are together in the 9th, one will be always diligent, be intent on
worshipping his father and God, will have an affluent wife and be virtuous.
59. If the Sun, Mars and Venus be together in the 9th, one will be fond of quarrels, is of a high
descent, will spoil virgins, be fickle-minded and be odious.
60. If Mars, Saturn and the Sun join in the 9th, one will be valorous, very mean, will hate people,
be fond of speaking lies, be cruel and be fatherless from boyhood.
61. Should the Sun, Mercury and Jupiter join in the 9th, one will be endowed with fortunes, wealth
and happiness, be dear to king, be appealing in appearance and be courageous.
62. Should Venus join the Sun and Mercury in the 9th, one will be splendourous, famous, will
destroy his enemies, be equal to a king and be rich.
63. Should the Sun, Mercury and Saturn join in the 9th, one will be fond of others women, be a
sinner, be interested in living in foreign places, be skilful, be a profligate, be a liar and be
unfortunate.

-- 116 of 203 --

117
64. Should the Sun, Venus and Jupiter join in the 9th, one will be very learned, splendourous, will
know many things and be intelligent.
65. The conjunction of the Sun, Jupiter and Saturn in the 9th is indicative, that the native will be
highly valorous, be a king, be wealthy, virtuous and plentiful.
66. If the Sun, Venus and Saturn be together in the 9th, one will be devoid of splendour, be dirty,
punished by the king, be devoid of riches and be foolish.
67. The company formed by the Moon, Mercury and Mars in the 9th denotes, that the subject will
enjoy wealth, gold and gems and will be miserable throughout his boyhood.
68. If the Moon, Mars and Jupiter join in the 9th, one will conquer his five senses, be learned, will
honour elders and Gods and will be endowed with learning and wealth and be fortunate.
69. If Venus, Moon and Mars are together in the 9th, one will have a wounded body, be ugly, will
eat a lot, be fond of women, be at their disposal and will lose his strength (or wealth) through
them.
70. Should Saturn, Mars and the Moon be in the 9th, one will not possess a good maternal
history, be base, be given up by his mother in boyhood and will be mean among men.
71. If the Moon, Mercury and Jupiter are together in the 9th, one will bring credit to his descent, will
be a preceptor, will possess many friends and will be a king endowed with many things.
72. If the Moon, Mercury and Venus be together in the 9th, one will have a stepmother, be
endowed with delight and honour, will have many friends and will be gentle, or pacific.
73. If the Moon, Mercury and Saturn are together in the 9th, one will be bad in conduct, be
courageous, dirty, be averse to war and be poor.
74. If the Moon, Jupiter and Venus be in the 9th, one will be equal to a king and be a king.
75. If Jupiter, Saturn and the Moon be in the 9th, one will speak sweetly, be truthful, virtuous,
famous and skilful in all Shastras.
76. If Venus, the Moon and Saturn join in the 9th, one will be in agricultural profession, be
interested in women, will not indulge in sinful acts, will accomplish his objects (Kritakritya)
and be world-famous.
77. If Mars, Mercury and Jupiter join in the 9th, one will be splendourous, devoid of grief, be
learned, firm in his word, famous and be head of a zone.
78. If Mars, Mercury and Venus are conjunct in the 9th, one will head many provinces, or affairs,
be famous, honoured by the king, the fierce and be always zealous.
79.If Mars, Mercury and Saturn join in the 9th, one will be skilful in cheating others, will be highly
gloomy, will not be in a position to understand Shastras (i.e. be not so learned) and cannot
understand others notions.
80.If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus be together in the 9th one will be equal to God, be spotless,
famous, kingly, learned and virtuous.

-- 117 of 203 --

118
81.Should Mercury, Venus and Saturn join in the 9th, one will be intelligent, splendourous,
eloquent and happy.
82. One with Saturn, Venus and Jupiter in the 9th, will have plenty of food, drinks and riches, be
fortunate, happy and beautiful.
FOUR PLANETS IN CONJUNCTION IN 9th.
83. If the Sun, the Moon, Mars and Mercury join in the 9th, one will be rich, learned, fortunate and
dear to king.
84. If Venus, Moon, Sun and Mars are together in the 9th, one will be cunning, will be happy with
his wife and will indulge in many mean acts.
85. One, who has the Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and the Sun in the 9th, will be principled, steady,
honoured by the king and be delighted.
86. One with the Moon, Venus, Mercury and Sun in the 9th, will be a Lord of wealth, morally
meritorious, plentiful, eloquent in speech and be calm.
87. If the Sun, Mercury, Moon and Saturn be together in the 9th, one will be rich, splendourous,
kingly, will have many quadrupeds and will possess rich qualities.
88. One with the Sun, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus will honour God and father, will have a rich
wife and be virtuous.
89. If Venus, Mars, Mercury and the Sun join together in the 9th, one will be hard-hearted,
beautiful, interested in valorous acts, be not wealthy and will lose his wealth through his
enemies.
90. If the Sun, Mars, Mercury and Saturn be together in the 9th, one will be interested in others
wives, will incur loss of wealth and be always pitiable.
91. One with the Sun, Venus, Mars and Jupiter in the 9th, will hate people, be troubled by thirst,
will spoil virgins and be fickle-minded.
92. If the Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are in the 9th at birth, one will be devoid of happiness, be
diligent, fierce and courageous.
93. If the Sun, Jupiter, Venus and Mercury are in the 9th, one will be an excellent person endowed
with wealth, gold and sovereignty.
94. If the Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn are together in the 9th, one will be devoid of wealth, be
sinful, be interested in other housewives, spiteful and will indulge in mean acts.
95. Should the Sun, Mercury, Venus and Saturn be in 9th, one will be fortunate, wealthy, truthful
and world-famous.
96. With the Sun, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn in the 9th, one will be truthful, eloquent and will
honour elders, Brahmins and guests.
97. If the Moon, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter are in the 9th, one will have plenty of robes, will lose
his mother in boyhood and be wealthy.

-- 118 of 203 --

119
98. With Mars, Venus, Mercury and the Moon in the 9th, one will practice penance, be famous, be
a good speaker, be very charitable, ultra-mundane in disposition and be very learned.
99. If Saturn, Mercury, Moon and Mars are together in the 9th, one will be dejected, poor, base,
cunning and interested in others wives.
100. If Mars, Moon, Venus and Saturn, are together in the 9th, one is born in a royal family. He will
be a principle person, be valorous, will be endowed with plenty of learning and money, be
famous and dear to people.
101. One with Moon, Mars, Saturn and Jupiter in the 9th, will be troubled by thirst, be fond of
promoting quarrels and be plentiful in the matter of luck and robes.
102. If the Moon, Mars, Saturn and Venus are together in the 9th, one will be hard-hearted, sinful,
cunning and be bereft of cleanliness and behaviour.
103. If Venus, Jupiter, Mercury and Moon are together in the 9th, one will be wealthy, be endowed
with moral merits and be famous in arts.
104. One with Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter and Moon in the 9th, will be knowledgeable in politics and
ethics and be pleasing in appearance.
105. With Saturn, Venus, Mercury and the Moon in the 9th, the native will be intelligent, fierce, will
be an expert in democratic matters and be fortunate.
106. One with Moon, Saturn, Venus and Jupiter in the 9th, will be cunning, fierce, unconquerable
and bold.
107. If Mars, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn be together in the 9th, one will destroy his enemies, be
fierce in battle and bold.
108. If Mars, Mercury, Venus and Saturn join together in the 9th, one will be virtuous, wealthy and
pious.
109. If Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are in the 9th, one will be devoid of wealth, be base,
unkind and weak.
110. SPECIAL EFFECTS. If including Mercury there are 3 to 7 planets in the 9th, the native will be
trustworthy, wealthy and be a king.
111. If the 9th is occupied by other planets, without the company of Mercury, or Jupiter, the native
will be sickly, ugly, void of relatives, be troubled by imprisonments and will suffer penury.
112. Preceptors, like Badalayana, have explained still detailed results arising out of conjunction,
or aspects relating to the 9th House. One should understand these also and declare effects
after using his wisdom.
Thus ends the 32nd Ch. entitled NINTH HOUSE AND EFFECTS THEREOF in Kalyana
Varmas SARAVALI.

-- 119 of 203 --

120
Chapter 33.
Tenth House And Effects Thereof
1. Sages have explained effects relating to the Signs coinciding with the 10th House, planets
posited therein and planets aspecting the 10th House. I shall now explain those results.
2. The 10th House counted from the stronger among the Ascendant and the Moon, is called
Karmasthana and, if the Lord of that (10th) House is with strength, the effects in regard to
Karma will prosper. Otherwise, the same will decline.
3-6. The effects relating to the 10th House will depend on the nature of the Sign, viz. watery,
biped, Aranya (like Leo), or Jangala (Centiped), the form of such Sign and the places
indicated by such Sign. The 10th House should be carefully examined on these lines. The
occupant of the 10th House counted from the Moon, or from the Ascendant will influence the
livelihood of the native according to his (i.e. planets) nature and disposition.
7. In a previous Ch., results of placements of planets in the 10th House from the Ascendant have
been explained, while dealing with angular positions of various planets. Now specially
explained are with reference to the Moon.
8-13. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN THE 10TH FROM THE MOON. If the Sun occupies the 10th
from the Moon, the native will be successful in his undertakings, be very wealthy, very strong,
be a king, will patronize others and be healthy in physique.
Mars so placed denotes, that the native will be interested in valorous deeds, will live in foreign
places will long for sensual enjoyments, be cruel and will be akin to an outcast in conduct.
If Mercury occupies the 10th from the Moon, one will be learned, rich, will have abundant
knowledge of sacred affairs, like Veda etc.), be dear to king, famous, acquainted with many
an art and be intelligent.
If it is Jupiter, that occupies the 10th counted from the Moon, the native will be successful in
achieving his desires, righteous, affluent, will have excellent history among men, be a kings
minister and be famous.
If Venus occupies the 10th from the Moon, one will be fortunate, beautiful, famous, will be
successful in his undertakings, be rich and be honoured by king.
Should Saturn occupy the 10th with reference to the Moon, the native will have physical diseases,
be poor, grieved, bereft of children and be always emotional.
14-18. EFFECTS OF THE SUN JOINING ANOTHER PLANET WHEN IN THE TENTH FROM
THE MOON.
Should the Sun be with Mars, while being in the 10th counted from the Moon, the native will be a
labourer (karmakaran), will suffer severely from cough and pulmonary consumption, or

-- 120 of 203 --

121
consumption in general, be an astrologer and will be an expert in the science of marks and
Signs and also in logic.
Should the Sun be with Mercury in the 10th from the Moon, one will enjoy robes and ornaments,
be a trader and will live through the means of water.
If the Sun is conjunct Jupiter being in the 10th from the Moon, he will be successful in his
undertakings, be honoured by the king, brave and famous.
If the Sun is conjunct Venus in the 10th from the Moon, the subject will patronize his people, be
fortunate, dear to the king and will increase his possessions through the help of his wife (or
women).
The Sun and Saturn being together in the 10th from the Moon will make one liable to
imprisonment, a servant, poor, wretched (or miserly), lose to thieves and prattle.
19-22. EFFECTS OF MARS JOINING ANOTHER PLANET IN THE 10th FROM THE MOON.
When Mars gets the company of Mercury being in the 10th from the Moon, one will have
many an enemy, be skillful in archery and be very valorous.
If Jupiter be with Mars in the 10th of the Moon, one will be a mighty leader, will gain wealth via
friends, will live thereby and be fortunate.
Venus and Mars being in the 10th from the Moon indicates, that the native will be interested in
living in foreign places, will trade in gold, precious stones etc. and will progress through
women.
Saturn and Mars conjunct in the 10th from the Moon, indicates, that the native will be
adventurous, base and will suffer from diseases.
23-25. EFFECTS OF MERCURY JOINING ANOTHER PLANET IN THE 10TH FROM THE
MOON. If Jupiter and Mercury be together in the 10th from the Moon, the subject will be rich,
honoured by the king, righteous, be leader of men and be famous.
If Venus and Mercury are conjunct in the 10th counted from the Moon, one will be endowed with
friends, learning, wife, wealth and happiness, be a kings minister and a provincial head.
If Mercury is conjunct Saturn being posited in the 10th from the Moon, the person concerned will
be a potter, be famous, imparter of learning and be an author of books.
26-27. EFFECTS OF JUPITER JOINING ANOTHER PLANET IN THE 10th FROM THE MOON.
If Jupiter joins Venus in being in 10th from the Moon, one will serve a superior king, will head
Brahmins, be devoid of grief, be an imparter of learning and be skillful.
Saturn and Jupiter in the 10th from the Moon denote, that one will be base, will cause grief to
others, will act, like an aged person, will have a firm residence and will successfully begin his
undertakings.
28. EFFECTS OF VENUS-SATURN CONJUNCTION IN THE 10th FROM THE MOON.
One with Venus and Saturn in the 10th from the Moon will be an artist, will trade in scents, be a
doctor and will deal in black-salt and camphor.

-- 121 of 203 --

122
Notes: Neelam apart meaning black-salt also indicates poison, antimony, sapphire etc., while
Churna means apart from camphorflour, chalk, lime etc.
29-48. EFFECTS OF THREE PLANETS IN CONJUNCTION IN THE 10th FROM THE MOON.
If the Sun, Mars and Mercury are in the 10th from the Moon, one will be fortunate, excellent
among men, equal to king and be honoured by all.
The Sun, Mars and Jupiter in the 10th of the Moon denote, that he will be fortunate, will destroy
his enemies and will be plentiful.
The Sun, Mars and Venus in the 10th of the Moon will make one cruel, adventurous, steal others
wealth and highly skillful.
Mars, Saturn and the Sun posited in the 10th of the Moon denote, that he will be intent on doing
cruel acts, be foolish, sinful and bad in conduct.
The Sun, Mercury and Jupiter in the 10th of the Moon indicate, that he will be learned, beautiful,
righteous and be dear to his relatives.
Famous, righteous, devoid of anger, unconquerable, fortunes and plenty of robes; these are the
effects produced by the conjunction of Mercury, the Sun and Venus, in the 10th of the Moon.
When one has the Sun, Mercury and Saturn in the 10th of the Moon, one will be cruel, fickle
minded, be not virtuous and will be afflicted by weapons and fire.
If the Sun, Venus and Jupiter be together in the 10th of the Moon, one will be fortunate, will earn
by learning, be righteous and will always enjoy pleasures.
Saturn, the Sun and Jupiter in conjunction in the 10th counted from the Moon will make one
devoid of (worthy) history, still honourable and valorous.
Venus, Sun and Saturn in conjunction in the 10th counted from the Moon will make one miserly,
fickle minded and prohibited by all.
If Mars, Mercury and Jupiter are in the 10th counted from the Moon, one will be righteous, will
have a large family and many children and will be learned and wealthy.
Mercury, Mars and Venus in the 10th of the Moon will make one interested in fine arts, a dealer of
garlands, goldsmith and dear to all.
Saturn, Mars and Mercury in the 10th of the Moon will make one righteous, addicted to sleep,
wicked and dirty.
If at the time of birth one has Mars, Venus and Jupiter in the 10th from his Janma Rasi, he will be
wealthy, valorous and be interested in honouring Gods and Brahmins.
If Saturn, Jupiter and Mars are in the 10th counted from the Moon, one will be bereft of learning,
wealth and near and dear, be mean, bereft of happiness and be deformed (or distressed).
Mars, Venus and Saturn in the 10th counted from the Moon denote, that one will be a minister, or
an excellent personage, interested in others religions, wealthy and have many professions.
Mercury, Venus and Jupiter in the 10th (with reference to the Moon) identical with Taurus/Libra
denote, that all his desires will be fulfilled (i.e. he will be happy in all respects).

-- 122 of 203 --

123
Mercury, Venus and Jupiter in the 10th (with reference to the Moon) in Signs other, then
Taurus/Libra denote, that one will suffer from diseases.
Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn in the 10th of the Moon denote, that one will be interested in
authorship and literature, be wealthy, be a very modest servant, be fond of wandering and be
beautiful.
If Saturn, Mercury and Venus be together in conjunction in the 10th counted from the Moon one
will be endowed with wisdom, be a boxer, be interested in living in foreign countries, diligent
and tamed (like an elephant).
If Jupiter, Saturn and Venus join in the 10th from the Moon, one will be learned, righteous, kind
and truthful.
49. Those are the results of planets up to 3 in number joining in the 10th from the Moon. Different
results will be experienced, if more than 3 planets join in the 10th of the Moon, as explained
below.
50-61. EFFECTS OF 4 PLANETS JOINING IN THE 10th FROM THE MOON.
If the Sun, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter be in the 10th from the Moon, one will be valorous,
physically hurt, charitable and interested in all deeds.
With Mars, Sun, Venus and Mercury in the 10th from the Moon one will be a garland dealer,
writer, or an artist.
With Mars, Sun, Saturn and Mercury in the 10th from the Moon one will be endowed with wealth,
conveyances and elephants.
The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in the 10th from the Moon denote, that even though one will
have a mean profession, he will be excellent, will have sons and will have agricultural living.
The Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn in the 10th from the Moon denote, that one will be skillfully
cunning, cruel and will cheat others.
The Sun, Mercury, Venus and Saturn being in the 10th of the Moon, will make one hardhearted,
fortunate, eloquent and interested in agriculture.
The Sun, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn being in the 10th of the Moon, will make one interested in
foreign places and have many an acts to do.
If Mars, Venus, Mercury and Jupiter are in the 10th from the Moon, he will be skillful courageous
and unconquerable in battle.
If Mars, Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter are in the 10th from the Moon, one will be dirty, ever longing
for war and will destroy enemies.
Should Mars, Mercury, Venus and Saturn join in the 10th of the Moon, one will have abundant
learning, be valorous and will be broad-bodied.
Should Mars, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn join in the 10th of the Moon, one will be courageous and
endowed with family and wealth.

-- 123 of 203 --

124
If Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are placed in the 10th from Janma Rasi, one will be calmly
disposed, intelligent and dear to people.
62.MALEFICS IN THE 10TH FROM THE MOON.
If Malefics occupy the 10th House counted from the Moon and aspected by benefics, one will be a
doctor, Purohit (a religious guide), an astrologer, or will be interested in cheating others.
63.Whatever effects have been ascribed so far in this Ch. will specially reveal beneficially, if
benefics aspect the 10th House from the Moon. If malefics aspect, the benefic results may not
be there.
64. MALEFICS AND EFFECTS. Malefics in the 3rd, or in the 6th with reference to either the
Ascendant, or the Moon will prove favourable, while in the 8th, 12th, or the Ascendant they are
inauspiciousmore so in the Ascendant.
65. LIVELIHOOD. Ones livelihood should be predicted based on the 10th from the Moon, or from
the Ascendant; whichever is stronger will prevail. The earnings (livelihood) will also be
indicated by the stronger of the Lords of the 10th counted from the Moon, or from the
Ascendant.
66-80. SIGNS AND PROFESSIONS. If Aries, or many of its divisions be in the 10th, one will live
through gardens, intelligence, service, agriculture, trading in juices (Rasa has other
meanings, like liquor, poison, mercury, mineral/metallic salt etc.), or be an envoy. With
Taurus, or a majority of its divisions in the 10th, one will live through carts, quadrupeds, birds,
wild animals and by gathering grains. Similarly Gemini denotes trading through water,
precious stones, vessels, conch, writing, accountancy etc. Cancer in this context means
weapons, golden ornaments, arrows and hunting. Leo on the 10th, or many of Leo divisions
related to the 10th denote livelihood through precious stones, gold, stones (like construction
material) agriculture, cows and the like and grains. Wealth comes through vehicles, gems,
gold, scents, music, arts and writing, if Virgo features, as above. Libra in similar condition
indicates livelihood through teaching, dealing in gold, many ways and means, friends, cows,
buffaloes, many salable articles, things emanating from water, grains, fruits, agriculture and
arts. Similarly Scorpio denotes livelihood through female association, agriculture, thieving,
serving the king, sinful acts, rendering physical treatments (i.e. medical profession),
blacksmithing and grains. Ministership under a king, protection of forts, cattle, horses,
firewood, indicating omens, machinery, mathematics, medical treatment etc., are denoted by
Sagittarius in a similar manner. Capricorn in similar condition denotes livelihood through cots,
gardening, chemicals etc. and abundant income through waterborne items. Aquarius
indicates weapons, burning, separation (or creating inimical relationship between two),
thieving, carrying headloads and through physical stamina. Pisces in sim ilar manner denotes
living through weapons, waterborne items, sale of horses etc.
81.PLANETS IN THE 10th AND THEIR EFFECTS.

-- 124 of 203 --

125
The Sun in the 10th indicates income through father, the Moon mother, Mars enemies, Mercury
friends, Jupiter brothers, Venus females and Saturn servants.
82. There will be gains in many ways, if the Ascendant, the 2nd and the 11th are, respectively,
occupied by strong (favourable) planets, so say the preceptors.
Thus ends the 33rd Ch. entitled 10th HOUSE AND EFFECTS THEREOF in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 34.
Different Houses and Worldly Affairs
1-7. EFFECTS OF SEVERAL PLANETS ASPECTING THE ASCENDANT. If the Sun aspects the
Ascendant, the native will be valorous, will be irascible with females, be cruel, will gain wealth
from paternal side and will serve the king.
If the Moon aspects the Ascendant, he will be under the control of women, fortunate, be very
courteous, be very wealthy, softly disposed and will gain by dealing in water-born articles.
If Mars lends his aspect to the Ascendant, one will be fond of valorous acts and battles, irascible,
will have severed relationship, be very righteous and will have a long penis.
Should Mercury aspect the Ascendant, the native will have rich knowledge of arts and will thereby
gain and be quite intelligent, famous and honourable.
If Jupiter be the aspecting planet with reference to the Ascendant one will be interested in
religious observations, be honoured by the king, be famous and will be endowed with (the
company of) virtuous people, elders and guests.
Venus aspecting the Ascendant denotes, that he will be addicted to many prostitutes, be youthful,
will have happiness of wealth and pleasure and will be beautiful in appearance.
If Saturn aspects the Ascendant one will be troubled by heavy loads, travels and diseases, be
irascible, will be attached to aged women (i.e. will be fond of seeking union with aged
females), be devoid of happiness, be dirty and foolish.
8.GENERAL ASPECTS TO ASCENDANT. If a planet (whether natural benefic, or natural malefic)
aspects the Ascendant identical with its own Sign, that confers happiness and wealth, apart
from close relationship with the king. If the Ascendant is not owned by the aspecting planet, a
benefic then confers auspicious effects and a malefic evil results.
9.UNASPECTED ASCENDANT . Should the ascending Sign be not in aspect to even one planet,
the native will be devoid of (other) qualities and will acquire exclusive qualities of the Sign
concerned.

-- 125 of 203 --

126
10-11. SPECIAL EFFECTS. If two, or more planets aspect the Ascendant, the native acquires
happiness and wealth. Even one benefic aspecting the Ascendant is auspicious, while a
malefic so aspecting is inauspicious. If the Ascendant is aspected by all the planets one rules
over the earth. Should all the planets be endowed with strength, he will enjoy all kinds of
happiness, be free from fear and be long-lived.
12.PLANETS CONJUNCT IN THE ASCENDANT. If three planets are together in the Ascendant,
the native will be devoid of miseries and will lord over the earth. But, if these are (exclusively)
malefics, he will be distressed due to fear, grief etc., will eat much and will be disregarded by
one and all.
13.ADHI YOGA FROM ASCENDANT . If benefics exclusively occupy the 6th, 7th and 8th, without
the company of malefics, Lagnadhi Yoga is caused. This Yoga confers ministership,
leadership over Army (justiceship) and kingship, lordship over many women, long life,
freedom from diseases and miseries, possession of virtues and happiness. So say Yavana
kings.
14. A planet in own Sign, or in exaltation/friendly Sign, according to sages, confers its effects
fully. If it is in fall, or is inimically placed, it is incapable of giving the results (due to the above
mentioned Yoga).
15-20. PRINCIPLES RELATED TO THE 2ND HOUSE. If Mars, Saturn and the Sun occupy the 2nd
House, the natives wealth is destroyed.
If weak Moon aspects the 2nd House, such effects are more pronounced.
Mars and the Sun in the 2nd cause afflictions to skin apart from causing poverty.
If Saturn, posited alone in this House, is aspected by Mercury, he will be greatly rich.
Even, if the Sun is posited in the 2nd House in aspect to Saturn, without aspect of others,
pennilessness will come to pass.
Benefics in the 2nd House cause advent of money in many ways.
But, if Jupiter posited in the 2nd House remains under Mercurys aspect, or Mercury so posited in
the 2nd House in aspect to the Moon, the entire wealth earned by the native will be deprived.
Weak Moon in the 2nd House in Mercurys aspect denotes, that even the ancestral property will be
destroyed; not only this, other sources of income will also be hindered.
Should the 2nd House [from the] Moon be aspected by Venus, plenty of wealth will be earned.
Same is the result by aspect of another benefic (i.e. Jupiter).
21-24. PRINCIPLES RELATED TO THE 3rd HOUSE. When the 3rd House is owned by a malefic
and is occupied by a malefic, the co-born are destroyed. Conversely, a benefics Sign being
the 3rd and occupation of benefics therein will cause happiness thereof. Now explained below
is the method to ascertain the number of co-born. The number of Navansas past in the 3rd
House denotes the number of brothers following the native. If other planets aspect the 3rd
House, the said number (caused by Navansas) stands increased. Saturn placed in the 3rd in

-- 126 of 203 --

127
aspect to Mars causes destruction of co-born. But Venus in the 3rd and in aspect to Jupiter
increases happiness thereof. Mercury placed in the 3rd House, in aspect to Mars (or in aspect
to the Sun, as some texts read Bhaskara Drishtah instead of Angaraka Drishtah), the natives
friends are destroyed. Rest (relating to the 4th House) may be understood from Bhavadhyaya
(Ch. 30).
25-26. ABOUT THE 5th HOUSE. If the 5th House contains a benefic, or is aspected by a benefic,
or be a benefics Rasi, the native will surely beget children. If it is different, he will not obtain
progeny. If the 5th House counted from the Moon, or the Ascendant, the stronger prevailing,
has at least one Jupiters division in the various Varga calculations, or has a benefics Rasi in
it and is aspected by a benefic, the native will have legitimate issue.
27.NUMBER OF CHILDREN.
If the Navansa of the 5th falls in a benefics Rasi the number of children equals the number of
Navansas past in the 5th House. The aspect of a benefic on the 5th Bhava doubles the
number, while malefic Rasi, as 5th House Navansa and the said House receiving a malefics
aspect confers progeny with difficulty.
28. AUTHORIZING OTHER KINSMAN TO RAISE PROGENY FOR THE NATIVE. If the 5th
House falls in the divisions (like Rasi, Navansa, drekkana etc.) of Saturn and be with
Mercurys aspect, but without that of Jupiter/Mars/Sun, the native obtains progeny by
authorizing his kinsman to raise the same for him from his (the natives) wife. Similar result
prevails, if Mercurys Rasi be in the 5th House containing Mercury in it and is in aspect to
Saturn, but without the aspect of the others, as cited above.
29. ADOPTED OR BOUGHT PROGENY.
If the 5th House belongs to Saturn and be occupied by Saturn himself with the aspect of the
Moon, one procures a child by adoption, or by an act of purchase. Identical effect follows the
position of Mercury in the 5th House owned by him receiving the Moons aspect.
30. ADOPTION SANS CONSENT.
Should the 5th House contain Saturn un-aspected by others and fall in a Sapthamsa owned by
Mars, the native will adopt a grown up child without the consent of its natural parents.
31-32. BASE CHILDREN.
If the 5th House contains the Sun and falls in the divisions of Saturn receiving the aspect of Mars,
the children so obtained will be abject. Should the Moon be in the 5th House and receive
exclusively Saturns aspect, while the 5th House falls in a Navansa of Mars, even then the
progeny will be foolish and base.
33. If the 5th House is occupied by Mars falling in many of Saturns divisions and be in aspect to
the Sun, one will obtain a son, that is adopted by a stranger after its being cast off by its
original parents, so says sage Karuna.
34. ISSUE BY A REMARRIED WIDOW.

-- 127 of 203 --

128
Should the 5th House fall in Saturns Vargas and contain both the Moon and Saturn therein, in
aspect to both the Sun and Venus, progeny will be begotten by a widow given to the native in
remarriage.
35. PROGENY BY A VIRGIN.
Should the Moon be in the 7th along with the Sun, or the Moon being in the 5th in aspect to, or in
the company of the Sun, one will obtain issue through an unmarried girl.
36. PROGENY BY A WOMAN PREGNANT AT MARRIAGE.
If the 5th House falls in the divisions of the Luminaries and contains the Moon and the Sun in
aspect to Venus only, one will have progeny by a woman, who will already be pregnant at the
time of marriage.
37. ISSUELESSNESS.
If the 5th House falls in a malefics Sign and be occupied by strong malefics without benefics
aspect, the native will be childless.
38. PROGENY BY A FEMALE SLAVE.
If the 5th House be in a Navansa of Venus and be aspected by Venus, one will beget progeny by
a female servant. Some scholars opine, that even, if the Moons Navansa and the Moon so
come in the picture, the said effects will come to pass.
39. SONS AND DAUGHTERS.
When the 5th House has exclusively the divisions of the Moon and Venus and be with aspects of
Venus and the Moon alone, or be occupied by these two alone, or, when the said House has
the divisions of only even Signs, the native will beget only female children. In a contrary
situation, (i.e. 5th House falling in divisions of odd Signs only and be excluded from the
occupation, or aspect of Venus and the Moon but others), there will be birth of only male
children.
40. CHILDLESSNESS.
When the Moon occupies the 10th House, Venus is in the 7th and malefics are in the 4th, the
natives dynasty does not descend any further.
41. LOSS OF CHILDREN.
Should Mars be in the 5th, the children of the native will pass away, as they are born. However, if
Jupiter, or Venus lend aspect to the said position, the loss relates only to the first child. If all
planets aspect (the said Mars), then there is no loss at all of children.
42. SPECIAL EFFECTS.
Should the 5th House be occupied exclusively by malefics, the native will be devoid of wealth,
own men and happiness. If Mars is in the 5th House, he will be distressed (or deformed).
Saturn so posited denotes sickness. The occupations of Mercury, Jupiter, or Venus will
confer abundant happiness and wealth.
43-44. ENEMIES.

-- 128 of 203 --

129
If the 6th House is aspected by Saturn and occupied by Mars, the native will have fear from
enemies. Occupation, or aspect of benefics will keep one free from such fear. The number of
enemies (causing trouble) will correspond to the number of planets posited in the 6th House.
Rest of the related matters may be understood from the previous pages, (Ch. 30).
45 ABOUT THE 7th HOUSE. If Jupiter, Moon, Venus and Mercury be in the 7th, in any manner
(i.e. one of them, two, three, or all of them in the 7th), or other divisions falling in the 7th
House, or, if the 7th House be in aspect to these, one will procure a wife corresponding to the
planet/s and Rasi/s in question.
46. Should the 7th House contain malefics, or fall in malefic planets divisions, the wife of the
native will be destroyed (i.e. adversely affected). These results can be deduced from the
Ascendant and the Moon, the stronger of them having more significance. If the Moon be in
the 7th (from the Ascendant) along with Saturn, the native will marry a widow.
47. The number of wives will correspond to the number of heavenly bodies aspecting the 7th, or
the Navansas part in the 7th House. There will be a single wife, if Leo, Aries, or Scorpio rise in
Navansa, or, if Mercury and Jupiter join together in the 7th House.
48. If the 7th House has many divisions of Venus and the Moon, or is occupied by these two,
there will be plurality of wives. Specially Venus in the 7th will cause such an effect.
49. Jupiter and Venus related to the 7th House will confer a bride of the same caste, while the
Sun, Mars, Saturn and the Moon denote a female belonging to a mean order. As per
Ketumalacharya, Venus and Moon related to the 7th House will cause relationship with
whores.
50-51. Mars in the 7th House will make one go devoid of wife.
If he is, while so posited in aspect to only Saturn, the wife will certainly pass away.
Should Mars and Venus be together in the 7th, or 5th, or 9th, the native will beget a languid, or
deformed wife.
52. It is the unanimous opinion of all the sages, that, if the Moon and the Sun are, respectively, in
the 12th and the 6th, both the native and his wife will be one-eyed.
53. If Saturn occupies the Ascendant, while Venus is in the 7th identical with Ganda Rasi and the
5th is bereft to beneficial aspect, the person acquires a barren wife.
54-55. One will be devoid of a wife and an issue, if malefics occupy the Ascendant, 12th and 7th,
while decreasing Moon is in the 5th. Both the native and his wife will be immoral, if the 7th
House falls in the various divisions of Saturn and Mars, while Venus is posited in the 7th in
aspect to Mars and Saturn.
56. When the 7th House is occupied by Mercury and Venus, the native will be bereft of both wife
and progeny. If however this combination receives the aspect of a benefic, there will be
obtainment of a wife at an advanced age.
57. Should the Moon, along with even one of Mercury,

-- 129 of 203 --

130
Jupiter and Venus, be in the 7th, the native will be opulent.
58. ABOUT THE 11TH HOUSE.
The native will gain through kings, wars, thieves, forests, quadrupeds etc., if the Sun is placed in
the 11th House, or, if the 11th House is aspected, or owned by the Sun.
59. Should the Moon be in the 11th House, or her division so related to the 11th House the native
will gain through females and through sales of elephants. If the Moon is declining, these are
not much, but an increasing Moon increases these gains greatly.
60. Mars, or his divisions related to the 11th House, as above denotes gains through gold, coral,
ornaments, ruby, money, valour, coming and going (i.e. travels), fire and weapons.
61. Should Mercury, or his divisions be related to the 11th,
as above, the native will gain by writing, arts, literature and arguments.
62. Jupiter, or his divisions so related to the 11th House
indicates gains through headship of a city, royal mercy, Sacrifices (religious), meritorious acts,
gold and horses.
63. When the planet Venus, or his divisions are so connected with the 11th House, one will gain
through connections with prostitutes, travels, pearls and silver.
64. Saturn, or his divisions so connected with the 11th House indicates gains through towns and
villages, acts of lasting nature, iron, donkeys and buffaloes.
65. The effects attributed above stand increased, if benefics aspect the 11th House, will decrease
by malefic influence and will remain mixed with the interference of both benefics and
malefics.
66. If the 11th House is aspected by (or associated with) all the planets, advent of wealth will be in
several ways. The strongest of those will have the highest influence.
67. A planet in its own Sign, or in a friendly Sign will give half of the effects attributed. These
effects are full, if it is in its exaltation Sign, very meagre, if it is combust and just one fourth, if
inimically placed.
68. The effects relating to the 11th House, as mentioned above will be experienced right from
birth, according to Yavanas. But according Lokaksha (a preceptor by that name), kings and
heads of zones stand to enjoy abundant gains (as against a common man).
69-70. ABOUT THE 12th HOUSE.
If the Sun, or weak Moon is placed in the 12th, the natives wealth will be lost to the king. Mars
posited in the 12th in aspect to Mercury, will cause losses in several ways Jupiter, the Moon
(with increasing rays) and Venus in the 12th will cause growth of wealth, provided there is no
aspect from Mars on them. Rest may be understood from the previous portion (Ch. 30).
71. MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS.
Even a person born in regal scion will become an artisan, if the Ascendant in Mercurys decanate
receives the aspect of the Moon from an Angle.

-- 130 of 203 --

131
72. Should Venus be in the 12th House in Virgo
identical with Saturns Navansa, while the Luminaries are in the 7th in aspect to Saturn, the natives
mother though belonging to a noble race will become a slave.
73.Should Saturn occupy the 2nd House
counted from the Sun, while the Moon and Mars, respectively, are in the 10th cusp and 7th House
with reference to the Ascendant, the native will always be distressed.
74. The native will suffer from pulmonary and spleen disorders apart from tuberculosis, if the
Moon is hemmed between malefics, as Saturn occupies the 7th House.
75. Should there be an exchange between the Sun and the Moon in the Navansa, the native will
suffer from phlegmatic disorders. Should the Sun and the Moon be in one Rasi having
identical longitudes, the native will be emaciated at all times.
76. Should the 8th, 2nd, 6th and the 12th be, respectively, occupied by the Sun, Moon, Mars and
Saturn, the native will lose his eyes due to the affliction caused by the strongest of the tour.
77. If malefics occupy the 6th, 11th, 3rd and 5th, the native will suffer from ear defects, provided
there are no aspects from benefic pl anets. Malefics in the 7th un-aspected by benefics will
produce dental afflictions.
78. There will be diseases of the mind, if Saturn occupies the Ascendant, while Mars is in the 5th,
or the 9th. Alternatively, Saturn, while being in the Ascendant should be conjunct decreasing
Moon to cause the said effects.
Thus ends the 34th Ch. entitled DIFFERENT HOUSES AND WORLDLY AFFAIRS in Kalyana
Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 35.
Raja Yogas
1. This science is mainly useful to rulers. Hence I explain in this Ch. the configurations, that make
one a king.
2. KINGLY/WEALTHY YOGAS.
One born in a royal scion will become a ruler, if 3, or 4 planets, with strength, occupy their
exaltation/Mulatrikona Signs at birth. If 5, or 6 planets be so placed, even a person of mean
birth will attain rulership. If one, or two heavenly bodies be so, the native will only be rich,
being equal to a king, but not really be a king.
3. According to Yavanas, if only malefics are exalted , the native will become a king indulging, in
cruel deeds. But, as per Jeevasarma, such planets will make one valorous, but not a king.

-- 131 of 203 --

132
One with such a Yoga (according to Kalyanavarma) will be honoured and will become the
head of a region.
4. Explained below are the Yogas, that will make even a person of base birth a king, according to
Shastras.
5. If all the four of the Sun, Mars, Saturn and Jupiter, or three of them, be exalted and one of
them be simultaneously in the Ascendant, a total of 16 kinds of Raja Yogas are formed. One
born even in a mean caste with such a Yoga will become a ruler. Again a different group of
16 Raja Yogas are formed, if one, or two out of the above four planets are in exaltation, while
one of the exalted planets occupies the Ascendant, as the Moon remains in Cancer.
According to great sages, these 32 Yogas will make one a ruler, who reigns the whole earth,
as though it is just a garden.
6. If at the time of birth either the Ascendant, or the Moon be in Vargottama Navansa and be in
aspect to 5, or 6 planets other than the Moon (when the Ascendant being considered) one
will become a king in spite of his having taken birth in a mean family.
7. If at birth Aries be the Ascendant containing the Moon, Mars and Jupiter one will become an
emperor of the whole earth encircled by the seas and the Udayagiri (i.e. the mountain, from
which the Sun etc. are supposed to rise) and will roaringly destroy his enemies.
8. Should Jupiter be in Cancer, while Mars occupies Aries identical with the Ascendant, or should
both Jupiter and Mars be in Aries Ascendant, the native will become a ruler whose enemies
dare not approach him, while his minister will be favourable to him.
9. Should the Moon be in the 11th House along with Venus and Jupiter, while Aries, Capricorn
and Virgo are occupied by their Lords, one born in Virgo Ascendant will doubtlessly become
a very knowledgeable king.
10. If Cancer Ascendant contain the Moon with full bright rays, while the 7th, 6th, 4th, 10th and 3rd
are, respectively, occupied by Mercury, Sun, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn, the native will
become a ruler. Simultaneously Mars should be conjunct Saturn.
11. Should Taurus ascend at birth with the Full Moon, as Aquarius, Leo and Scorpio are
tenanted, respectively, by Saturn, the Sun and Jupiter, the native will become a king with
abundant riches and with conveyances.
12. If Capricorn Ascendant birth along with Saturn, while Pisces, Gemini, Virgo and Sagittarius
are, respectively, occupied by the Moon, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter, one will become a ruler
equal to Indra, Lord of the Lords.
13. If the Moon is in Pisces identical with Ascendant, while Capricorn, Aquarius and Leo are in
their order occupied by Mars, Saturn and the Sun, one will become a ruler well versed in all
arts.
14. One will become an unconquerable king, with knowledge of the Vedas, if he takes birth in
Capricorn Ascendant with exalted Mars, if it opposed by Full Moon in Cancer.

-- 132 of 203 --

133
15. If exalted Sun is in the Ascendant along with the Moon, the native will become a ruler, who
will be endowed with pleasing appearance and with whose very reminiscence the enemies
will shed tears and will sparkle fire of grief in their hearts.
16. Should Venus, Mars and Jupiter by respective]y placed in Aquarius, Aries and Cancer, one
born so will become a king spreading his fame to all the directions.
17. If the planet Jupiter, with the splendour of heated yellow metal, be in Cancer identical with
Ascendant, while the Sun is in the 10th in Aries and the Moon, Mercury and Venus are in
Taurus (in the 11th), one will conquer the entire earth with his own prowess.
18. The native will become a king, if the Moon occupies Sagittarius along with Jupiter, while Mars
occupies Capricorn and Mercury in Virgo in Ascendant.
19. If the Luminaries occupy the first half of Sagittarius, while Saturn is exalted, with exceeding
strength, in Libra Ascendant and Mars is in Capricorn, one will become a ruler whose valour
will provoke only honour from his foes.
20-21. CHANDRADHI YOGA. Adhi Yoga is caused by all benefics being in the 6th, 7th and 8th
from the Moon. These Houses should exclude the Sun and not receive any aspect from
malefics. One born with this Yoga will become a king possessing a kingdom boundaried by
seas whose band of intoxicated elephants will eke out ichor, which the black forest bees will
drink (mistaking the ichor to be flowers honey). Such a native will be immune to senescence
and sickness, be bereft of fear from enemies, be valorous, fortunate and happy.
22. Mercury in exaltation in the Ascendant, the Moon and Jupiter in Pisces, Mars and Saturn in
Capricorn, while Venus is in Gemini: this configuration will produce a ruler destroying his
enemies. The dust formed by the movements of his elephant Army will darken the entire
earth.
23. One will become a king with the following planetary configuration prevailing at the time of
birth: The Sun and Jupiter in Leo, Saturn in Aquarius, the Moon in Taurus, Mars in Scorpio
and the Ascendant in Aries.
24. A famous king will be produced, if Aries be the Ascendant at birth along with the Sun therein,
Jupiter be in Sagittarius and the Moon with Saturn is in Libra.
25. If the three planets, viz. Jupiter, Mercury and Venus occupy such Rasis, which are angular to
their respective own Rasis and be in the process conjunct Saturn, Mars and the Sun, while
the Moon is in Taurus, the native will become a king purifying the (four) directions with his
unstained fame. The native born in Aries Ascendant with the Sun in deep exaltation will rule
the earth boundaried by the seas.
26. Should the Moon be in the 4th House simultaneously falling in a watery Navansa and be with
all her splendour, while a benefic is in its own House identical with the Ascendant and
malefics are away from Angles, a king is born.

-- 133 of 203 --

134
27. The Moon in the state of her Fullness, if be in aspect to Venus, Jupiter and Mercury, while the
Lord of the Ascendant is endowed with strength, one so born will become a king. The
Ascendant in question should be in a Dual Sign and be in Vargothamamsa.
28. The native, who has three, or four benefic planets in Vargothamamsa will become a king.
These planets should be in Angles, not combust, be not weak and be free from the company
of malefics.
29. Even, if a single benefic is in Vargothamamsa, the native will become a king, provided the
planet in question is strong and be in aspect to a friendly planet.
30. The Full Moon in Cancer Ascendant not falling in inimical subdivisions, will make one a king
endowed with gems elephants and horses, provided he has a benefics aspect, while all the
other planets occupy Seershodya Signs.
31. If the dispositor of the Moon is in the 3rd, 6th, 10th, or 11th counted from the Moon herself, one
born so will become a ruler comparable to Lord Indra provided malefics are bereft of strength
and benefics be in Angles identical with Rasis owned by benefics. Alternatively, these
benefics instead of falling in such Rasis may be in such Navansas ruled by benefics.
32. The native will become such a valorous king whose Armys very roaring will quake the earth, if
in his radix all planets, being strong, occupy their respective deep exaltation points in aspect
to friendly planets and without inimical aspects.
33. Should the Moon be in her deep exaltation degree in aspect to Venus, while all malefics are
relegated to 3rd, 6th, 9h and 12th Houses, one will become a king.
34. If the Ascendant Lord and the Moon Sign Lord are together in an Angle at birth, in aspect to
auspicious and friendly planets, unaspected by malefics and not being defeated by enemies,
the native will become a plentiful king. Alternatively the Moon should be in Lagna and the
Lagna Lord in the 9th thereof. The black forest bees consuming the ichor of his Army
elephants will sing the glory of such native in all directions.
35. Find out, if the Ascendant is the exaltation Sign of any planet. If the planet in question is
aspected by a benefic from an Angle a king is born. However, the first mentioned planet
should be in own Navansa, or friendly Navansa, or exaltation Navansa.
36. Saturn with strength, the Sun, Mars, the Moon, Venus and Mercury, respectively, positioned
in the second half of Capricorn, Leo, Aries, Cancer, Libra and Virgo will make one an
emperor, who will be endowed with spotless fame protecting his population.
37. If all the planets are in Vargothamamsa and are radiant the native will become an emperor of
the whole earth subduing all his enemies.
38. The subject will become a ruler, if the Ascendant Lord is in an Angle in aspect to a friendly
planet, while the Ascendant is tenanted by a benefic.

-- 134 of 203 --

135
39. Should Jupiter and the Moon be in Taurus identical with the Ascendant, while its Lord
(Venus), is in his Moolatrikona (or in a Trine from the Ascendant) unaspected by the Sun,
Saturn and Mars, the native will be a famous ruler controlling all his foes.
40. If at birth all planets, avoiding inimical and debilitational divisions, occupy their own, or friendly
divisions in aspect to friendly planets, while the Moon is Full with her rays, the native will
become a ruler.
41. If the Full Moon is exalted and is in Vargothamamsa, in aspect to a benefic planet, the person
so born will become a famous ruler in the Dasa of the benefic planet in question. There
should not be a strong malefic in an Angle in the said Yoga.
42. If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon Sign Lord with strength are together in an Angle,
while the Moon occupies a watery Sign identical with a Trine, the native will become a king.
43. Should all the planets at birth be in their own Rasis and in friendly Navansas, or vice versa,
the subject will become an emperor.
44. Should all the other planets be in their deep exaltation points, while Mercury is in his
exaltation Amsa, the native will rule over the three worlds, receiving honours from Gods and
Demons.
45. One will become an emperor devoid of any foes, if the 4th, 1st, 7th and the 10th are,
respectively, occupied by Vasishta (one of the Saptharishis), Jupiter, Venus and Agasthya
(again one of the Saptharishis).
46. If the Full Moon is in her exaltation Rasi, or in own Rasi, or in own Navansa, while Jupiter
posited in an Angle is in aspect to Venus, the native becomes a great emperor provided the
Sun is in the Ascendant with strength identical with his own House.
47. Should the Full Moon receive the aspect of all the planets the native will live long and will not
be subjected to adverse results, that may be caused by Kemadruma and such other Yogas.
48. The Sun approaching his exaltation Sign (i.e. being in the end of Pisces), while Jupiter and
the Moon are in Cancer, the native will become a king endowed with various precious stones.
In this Yoga, the Sun should be simultaneously in a Trine from the Ascendant.
49. Should six planets be in simultaneous exaltation, endowed with radiance and occupy their
own Navansas, with strength, the native will become an emperor comparable to Yayati,
Sagara and Vena.
50. Should all the benefics with radiant rays occupy the Ascendant, being not combust and
unaccompanied by malefics, the native will become a ruler, who will take to penance in
forests and hills. The benefics in question should occupy the Rasi and Navansas of benefics.
51. If all benefic planets be in benefics Rasis identical with Panaphara Houses (i.e. 2nd, 5th, 8th
and 11th), while malefics occupy Dual Signs, the native so born will become a king, destroying
all his enemies and be equal to Brihaspati (Jupiter) in terms of intelligence.

-- 135 of 203 --

136
52. If the Lord of the Ascendant is in the Ascendant itself, or is in a friendly Sign in aspect to a
friendly planet, the native will become a ruler, destroying his enemies, provided there is a
benefic in the Ascendant.
53. If the Full Moon is aspected by Jupiter and be unaspected by others, while there is no planet
in debilitation, the native will become a ruler. The said Moon should occupy Aries Navansa.
This Raja Yoga is conceived by Yavanas.
54. If the Full Moon occupies an Upachaya House, i.e. 3rd, 6th, 10th, or 11th in exclusive aspect to
Jupiter, while the Lord of the Moon Sign occupies the 10th, or 7th, the native will become a
ruler.
55. If the Full Moon be exalted and aspected by all the planets the native will become a famous
ruler endowed with a vast Army consisting of elephants, horses and armed men and will rule
over the entire earth akin to Adisesha (the Divine Snake) painfully bearing the whole earth on
its hood.
56. Should the Moon, being fully splendourous, occupy Leo Navansa, while all other benefics,
devoid of malefic connections are angular from the ascending Sign, the native will become a
ruler endowed with various elephants.
57. Should the Moon be with Jupiter in the 5th House, while Mars, Mercury and the Moon be not
in fall in Rasi and be in their own Navansas, one will become a king with everlasting fame. In
this Yoga, Mars and Mercury should be in the 12th and, or the 3rd without combustion.
58. If three planets be in such Signs, which are not inimical, or debilitational, be with full strength,
be aspected by benefics and be endowed with splendourous rays, the native will become a
ruler.
59. If the Moon, who is in Vargothama Navansa, or in Cancer in Navansa, is aspected by a strong
planet, while the ascending Sign is free from malefic occupation, the native will become an
emperor endowed with physical splendour.
60. If the Moon is in a watery Sign/Navansa, while benefic is in the Ascendant and in his own
Amsa, the native will become a ruler endowed with many elephants and the like. In this Yoga,
malefics should, however, not be in Angles.
61. If the Full Moon occupies Vargothama position, the native will become a ruler of the earth
whose horses kicks will spread dust making even the brilliant sun in the sky look, like an early
mornings Moon.
62. If at birth all planets are endowed with roles of Yoga karaka, the native will become an
emperor. If one planet be so, he will rule a province.
63. Even, if one planet occupies its own Panchamsa, the subject will become a ruler. If all are
endowed with strength he becomes an emperor. Notes: Panchamsa division is a little bit
different from Trimsamsa. In odd Signs the Panchamsa (i.e. 6 degrees in length) rulerships

-- 136 of 203 --

137
are in order: Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus. The reverse holds good in the case
of even Signs.
64. If the Moon is aspected by Jupiter from Taurus, the native will rule over the entire earth.
65. If the Moon is aspected by any planet from its exaltation/Moolatrikona/own Sign, even a
hunter will become a king.
66. Should the Moon be in her own Rasi and in her own decanate, one will become a ruler. If
simultaneously a benefic is endowed with strength, the native will become a great king.
67. Should the Sun be in his own Navansa, while the Moon is in Cancer Rasi, the native will
become a king, endowed with elephants.
68. Even a villager will become a king, if he has Saturn in the Ascendant and Jupiter in the 7th,
one of them being in aspect to Venus.
69. The native will doubtless become a king, if Venus rises in a Rasi of Jupiter in aspect to Jupiter
himself, while Mercury is in exaltation.
70. If the Sun, the Moon and Venus occupy one single House in exclusive aspect to Jupiter, the
native will become a ruler.
71. One will become a ruler, if Mars, Mercury and Venus are in the Ascendant, while both the
Moon and Jupiter are in the 7th in aspect to Saturn.
72. If strong Jupiter be in aspect to Mars, while the Sun is in the 10th in Aries, even a base person
will become a ruler. However, it is necessary, that the said Jupiter be in Aries Navansa, or in
Scorpio Navansa.
73. If the Moon, the Sun and Venus are in the 3rd House, while Mars and Jupiter are, respectively,
placed in the 7th and 9th Houses, even a person of mean strata will become a king. The
Ascendant in this case should be in Vargothamamsa.
74. One, two, three, or all of Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and the Moon occupying the 9th House with
strength and in aspect to a friendly planet, the native will be a king akin to God.
75. If the 9th House is occupied by an exalted planet, or the said 9th House is in aspect to the
planet, that will be in exaltation there in (in the 9th), while two others are independently in their
Signs of exaltation, the native will become a king and a pater familias.
76. Should the 5th House be occupied by the Moon and Jupiter in aspect to its Lord, as Venus is
in Pisces, even a person of base birth will become a king.
77. If the Moon is in the 3rd, or the 10th House, while Jupiter is exalted, the native will be a ruler of
the entire earth endowed with Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth.
78. If Jupiter is exalted and is simultaneously in an Angle, while Venus occupies the 10th, the
subject will be a famous king, lording over the entire earth.
79. One born even, as a Brahmin will become a king, if the full Moon is in her own House, while
Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn are in the 4th House. The latter 3 should be in the own Navansas
simultaneously and be aspected by the Sun.

-- 137 of 203 --

138
80. If the Sun is in the 10th identical with his Moolatrikona Rasi, or Venus, Jupiter and the Moon
are in 3rd, 6th and 11th in own Houses the native will become a king.
81. If the 7th House contains a benefic planet and be in aspect to a friendly planet, while Mars is
exalted, one will become a ruler of the earth. The benefic in question should fall in a friendly
Navansa also.
82. Should the Sun, the Moon, Mercury and Mars occupy the 10th House and also friendly
Navansas, while Venus is in the 9th House, the native will become a ruler, whose elephants
ichor will settle the dust emanating by their own treadings. In this Yoga, the planets in the 10th
shall not be in fall, in enemies camps, or be in combustions.
83. Should the Sun endowed with strength be exalted in the 10th House in the company of
Jupiter, as strong Venus is in the 9th House and in own Navansa, while the Ascendant shares
benefic sub-divisions, or has a benefic planet in it and is aspected by Mercury, the native will
become a ruler illumining the entire world with his fame.
86. One born in Abhijit star will become a valorous king even though he may be of base order by
birth.
87. One born with the Moon in Krittika and simultaneously in Gandanta Lagna, or Vishti (Bhadra)
Karana, or Parigha Yoga, or Vyatipata Yoga will become a king.
88. The Moon in the 4th House identical with Cancer, while Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are,
respectively, in the Ascendant, 7th and 10th Houses: the native will become a king.
89-90. If all the planets occupy six alternative Signs from the Ascendant, Chakra Yoga is formed
producing a king.
91. Should all the planets occupy the first six Houses commencing from the Ascendant, one will
become a king. Should these be in only four Houses from the Ascendant, he will become a
kings minister.
92. Should all the planets be relegated to the 5th, 4th, 3rd and 10th Houses, one will become a king
endowed with wealth, sons, relatives, conveyances and servants.
93. Nagara Yoga is formed, if all the planets are disposed in the 10th, 7th, 4th and Ascendant,
which will make one rule the earth.
94. Should the benefic planets be entirely in the 4th Ascendant and the 7th, while Mars, the Sun
and Saturn are in the 3rd, 6th and 11th Houses, one born will become a ruler according to
Yavanas.
95. A Raja Yoga known, as Kalasa Yoga is formed, if all benefics are in the 11th and 9th Houses.
96. Again a Raja Yoga named, as Kumbha Yoga is formed, if the 3rd, 5th and 11th Houses are
occupied by one each, while the 6th and 7th are occupied by 2 planets each.
97. Explaned above are such Raja Yogas, which will make even people of base birth reach royal
status. The following are royal combinations exclusively applicable to those of royal scion.

-- 138 of 203 --

139
98. One will be a king receiving honours from the entire world, if the Sun, the Moon, Saturn and
Mars are, respectively, in Leo, Aries, Aquarius and Capricorn. Jupiter in this Yoga should be
in Sagittarius, or Pisces, while Leo be Ascendant.
99. If a single benefic occupies the Ascendant with strength, while other benefics are in the 9th
and yet other planets be in the Ascendant, 2nd, or Upachaya Houses, one will become a king
with perennial wealth. The elephants of his Army will rain ichor misleading it to be a cloudy
atmosphere.
100. Should Jupiter be in the 4th identical with own House, while the Full Moon is in the 9th and
others are in the 3rd and Ascendant, an intelligent king is born endowed with all kinds of
wealth and conveyances.
101 A very famous king is born, if the Moon is exalted in the Ascendant, while Jupiter, Venus,
Mercury, Mars and the Sun are, respectively, in the 2nd House, Libra, Virgo, Aries and Leo.
102. A king famous for his virtues is born, if the Sun and the Moon are in the 10th, Saturn is in
Ascendant Jupiter in the 4th and Venus, Mercury and Mars are in the 11th House.
103. If Jupiter occupies the Ascendant, other than Capricorn, one born will be a king endowed
with elephants etc.
104. One will become a king, if Mars is in the Ascendant and Saturn and the Sun are in the 10th,
while Jupiter, Venus, Mercury and Moon are, respectively, in the 7th, 9th, 11th and 4th Houses.
105. When even the weak Moon in exaltation can herself produce a king what of Full Moon in
exaltation ?
106. If the Full Moon occupies an Angle other than the Ascendant, the native will be a king
endowed with wealth, conveyances and valour.
107. If Venus is in aspect to Jupiter, the native will become a valorous king possessing many
elephants.
108. Should Mercury be aspected by Jupiter at birth, the native will become a honourable king.
109. Should the Ascendant Lord in exaltation aspect the Moon, the subject will become a king
endowed with wealth and conveyances and will conquer his enemies.
110. One will become a fortunate king and endowed with fame and success over rivals, if exalted
Moon aspects both Mercury and Venus.
111. The subject will be a ruler endowed with perennial wea1th, if the Moon occupies the
Navansa of a bosom friend in aspect to Venus.
112. For a day birth, if the Moon is in Cancer Navansa, or in a very friendly Navansa and is
aspected by Jupiter, the native will doubtlessly become a king.
113. When even a Brahmin can become a king, if the Lord of Moon Sign is in Angle with strength,
what doubt is there of a person of royal scion with a similar configuration becoming a ruler ?

-- 139 of 203 --

140
114. Should the Sun be in a thick friends Sign in aspect to the Moon, the native will rule over
Anga (a province so named in olden days related now to Bhagalpur) and be endowed with
wealth and virtues.
115. Should Mercury be exalted and be in conjunction with the Moon, the native will rule over
Magadha (the southern part of modern Bihar) the ichor of whose elephants will spread
perfume to all the corners.
116. If the Full Moon is endowed with strength the native will become a king, who will conquer his
foes.
117. When even a cowherd will become a king, if the Ascendant Lord is strong and in an Angle,
what is there then for a person born of a royal scion with a similar Yoga not to become a
king ?
118. If Jupiter occupies Cancer identical with the 10th House counted from the Moon the native
will become a Lord of the entire earth.
119. If the Sun is in Aries along with the Moon, the native will rule over the region consisting of
Kerala, Karnatak andhra, Dravida and Chola (identified with the modern southern India).
120. If Jupiter occupies Cancer along with the Moon, the subject will rule over Kashmir.
121. If Jupiter and Venus are in their exaltation Signs, or in their own Houses a person belonging
to royal scion will surely become a king. But one of these two Signs should be one of Angles,
9th, 2nd and 11th Houses.
122. If a benefic planet, endowed with directional, positional and temporal strengths, is in an
Angle and be bereft of aspect, or conjunction of a malefic planet, the native will become a
king. Alternatively, if 3 heavenly bodies be with such strengths occupy Angles, even then the
native will become a king.
123. If Mercury, Jupiter and Venus occupy the 2nd Sign from the Sun, without combustion and
without malefic aspects/conjunctions the native will rule over the land with 3 seas, as its
boundaries.
124. If the Full Moon akin to a splendourous lotus (i.e. endowed with full rays) is aspected by her
dispositor and by a strong benefic, the native will become a king skillful in causing injury to
womens honour, be widely famous and be just.
125. Should the 2nd House be occupied by both Jupiter and Venus, one will become a king, who
will overpower his enemies.
126. These Yogas, as explained supra will make a person of royal scion a king. The skies will be
covered with the dust emanating by the treadings of elephants, horses and armed men of
such natives Army.
127. If Mars and Saturn occupy the Ascendant, while Mercury, Venus and Jupiter are in the 4th,
or, when Capricorn rises with Mars in it and the Navansa Ascendant is owned by Saturn
himself, the native will become a king.

-- 140 of 203 --

141
128. One will become the Lord of an island, if Cancer ascends with Jupiter and the Moon therein,
while Venus, Saturn and the Sun are exalted, as Mars is in his own divisions).
129. If Jupiter and Venus together occupy Pisces, while the Full Moon is exalted (in Amsa), as
the Sun occupies Aries in aspect to a malefic planet, the native will become a king and the
dust emanating, as a consequence of the movements of his Army will cloud the Sun, so that
the lotus will close its petals due to misconception of the sun having set.
130. If the 3rd and the 6th are occupied by fallen/inimical planets, while a strong benefic is in an
Angle with due deep exaltation, as the Moon is in Cancer identical with the 10th House, one
born during night time will become an emperor holding all the three worlds under a single
(royal) umbrella.
131. Should Jupiter with his splendourous rays be in the Ascendant, while the Moon is in the 11th
in aspect to Mercury and the Sun is in the 2nd from the Moon un-aspected by Mars one will
become an emperor of the entire earth endowed with elephants, horses etc.
132. The Sun with deep exaltation in Aries Ascendant along with the Moon and Mars, as Venus is
in Taurus along with Saturn and Jupiter in the 9th in Sagittarius: this Yoga will produce a
learned king, who will conquer his enemies.
133. A virtuous, famous and valorous ruler is born, if Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are together in
the 5th, while the Sun and Saturn are in the 6th and 9th Houses in their order, as Mars is
exalted.
134. If the Sun, Venus and Saturn, respectively, are in aspect to Jupiter, Moon and Mars, while a
Movable Sign is Ascendant, a famous and successful king is born.
135. Mercury in Virgo identical with the Ascendant, Mars in the 3rd House, Saturn in the 6th House
and Venus in the 4th House: this configuration will give birth to a king, who will conquer the
world with his own strength.
136. One will be a king lording over the earth, if Saturn is in Capricorn Ascendant, while the Sun,
Venus, Mars and the Moon are, respectively, in the 7th, 8th, Scorpio and Cancer.
137. A fickle minded king is born, if Mars is exalted in the Ascendant, as the 9th and the 7th are,
respectively, occupied by Saturn and the Luminaries.
138. Capricorn Ascendant containing Saturn, Cancer containing its Lord and Jupiter, Virgo
containing its Lord in aspect to Venus: this configuration will produce an unconquerable ruler.
139. Venus in the Ascendant, Jupiter in Sagittarius with friendly aspect and the Moon in Cancer:
this group of heavenly bodies will make one a king, who will construct wells, tanks and
temples and will honour Brahmins and Gods.
140. With even a single planet with unobstructed rays, if exalted in an Angle and the Sun being in
Angle with extreme power in aspect to Jupiter posited in the 5th House, the native will become
an honourable king.

-- 141 of 203 --

142
141. If Saturn, Mars and the Sun are in the 6th, or even in the 3rd House, while Jupiter occupies
the 11th House identical with Leo one will become a king conquering his enemies with his own
might. In this Yoga, Jupiter should be aspected by other benefics, but not by the Luminaries.
142. If Libra is Ascendant with Jupiter in it, while Venus is in Taurus, a king is born. While the two
heavenly bodies are so disposed at birth there be blowing pleasant breeze, the skies be clear
and the other planets should be enjoying full rays and temporary friendship (by stipulated
placements).
143. A famous king is born with the following planetary map: Mars, the Moon and Mercury in the
12th and the 3rd avoiding debilitation/combustion; but being in their respective own Navansas,
while the 5th House is occupied by Jupiter and the Moon.
144-145. If the Moon Sign Lord and the Ascendant Lord be with strength and be posited in an
Angle identical with a close friends Sign and aspect the Ascendant, Pushkala Yoga is formed.
The effects are: the native will become a king on whose invasion the band of elephants of his
enemies will exude ichor perfuming all the corners.
146. If the Ascendant Lord is in the beginning of a Sign, the native will be an Army chief, or
Justice with the king. If the planet in question be in the middle of a Sign, he will be the head
of a state. He will only be a village chief, if the Ascendant Lord is in the end of a Sign.
147. The sun in Revati, Poorva Phalguni, Uttara Phalguni, or Moola identical with Ascendant will
make one the head of a country extending to only hundred yojanas.
148. If Venus is in the Ascendant, one becomes a ruler, provided the planet in question
simultaneously occupies one of the asterisms, viz. Krittika, Revati, Swati, Pushyami and
Aswini.
149. If the Navansa Ascendant Lord be exalted in an Angle, the native will become an emperor. If
the Lords of the Moon Sign and Ascendant are in an Angle, the subject will be a wealthy king.
150. If the Full Moon in Pisces is in aspect to a friendly planet, the subject will become an
emperor whose orders be obeyed by all.
151-152. Should exalted Sun be in the 11th along with Jupiter, while Mars is in the 10th and the
Moon with Venus in the 9th, a king is born. Even the celestial horses of the Sun-Gods chariot
will take pleasure at the pleasant smell emanating from the dust spread over on the earth by
the treading horses the natives Army.
153. Even though the native may have been born out of wedlocks, the Moon with Saturn in an
Angle will make on wealthy king.
154. One will become a king with broad chest defeating all his enemies, if the 2nd House contains
Venus, Jupiter and Mercury, while relegated to the 7th are the Moon, the Sun (?) and Mars.
155. Strong Sun and Moon in Cancer, another planet with clear rays exalted elsewhere, Jupiter in
the Ascendant and Mars in the 6th: the five heavenly bodies so disposed will make one a king
whose Armys movements will cover the skies with dust.

-- 142 of 203 --

143
156. If the Moon is in the 8th degree of Aquarius identical with a Trine one will become a king,
who will be favourable to all.
157. If Mars is placed in the 7th degree of Aries, or in the 21st degree of Gemini, the native will
become a king.
158. If at birth the Moon is positioned in the 15th degree of Aquarius, or in the 10th degree of
Cancer, one will become a king.
159. A famous king is born, if Sagittarius 20 is occupied by Jupiter. Similarly Leo 15 occupied
either by the Sun, or by Mercury will produce a king.
160. A valorous king is denoted, who will acquire kingdom with his own might, if the Moon is
placed on the 15th degree of any Sign, but obtaining 5 Vargas of one and the same Sign.
161. If Saturn occupies the 5th degree of Capricorn, a fortunate king is born, who will be adorable
on the earth, be meritorious and be interested in Shastras.
162. If both the Moon and Jupiter are on the 5th degree of Cancer, one will become an inviolable
king, just as the Sun is head of the planets.
163. If the Moon is in Pushyami, or in Vargothama, or in Krittika, or Aswini Nakshatra an emperor
is born. Similar effect will come to pass, when birth is in Tripushkara. Notes: The first Yoga is
clear in this Sloka. The second one needs clarification about Tripushkara.
164. If Mars is in Aswini, or Anuradha, or Dhanishta, a Raja Yoga is formed. This applies only, if
the said planet is in Vargothama Navansa, or in exaltation Rasi simultaneously.
165. An excellent king is born, if the Moon with rays akin to white conch is in the 10th House,
while strong Venus is in the 9th House and all others relegated to the 11th House.
166. If all the other planets are disposed in 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th Houses counted from the Moon,
a king is born, who will be a repository of honour and will rule over the entire earth.
167. If Jupiter, Moon and Sun, respectively, occupy 5th, 9th and 3rd Houses, when counted from
Mars, the native will become a king, equal to Kubera (the Lord of celestial riches and regent
of the North).
168. Counted from Mercury, if the Sun is in the 3rd, Venus in the 4th and all others in the 5th, a king
is born, who will have 3 seas in the form of periphery for his land. In this Yoga, no planet shall
be in fall, or in inimical Sign.
169. If the 2nd, 4th and 10th Houses counted from Jupiter are, respectively, occupied by Saturn,
the Sun and the Moon, while all others are in the 6th, a prince will become a ruler.
170. If Mercury and Saturn are in the 4th and 8th counted from Venus, while all others are in the
3rd and 11th, one will become a king.
171. If Venus and Mercury occupy an Angle from Saturn, while the rest are in their exaltation
Signs, an excellent king will be born.
172. If all the planets are in the 3rd, 5th and 11th Houses from the Sun, one will become a king, or
a minister, or an Army chief.

-- 143 of 203 --

144
173. Should there be a malefic in the 11th from the Ascendant Lord, who has clear rays, while a
benefic is in an Angle (from the Ascendant), the native will become a king, who will have self-
earned kingdom.
174. A virtuous king is denoted, with honours from other kings, if all malefics occupy the 11th, 3rd
and 6th Houses counted from the Moon Sign Lord and be in aspect to benefics.
175. If Jupiter occupies Aries/Leo, while Mars is in his own Sign in aspect to the Sun one of royal
descent will become a king. It is understood, that no other planet shall be in fall in the nativity.
176. If Sunapha Yoga etc. from the Moon are found operating in Angles, one born in a royal scion
will definitely become a ruler of men.
177. Should the Moon and Jupiter be in an Angle from the Ascendant in aspect to Venus, the
native will become a king with wide spread fame provided there is no debilitated planet in the
nativity.
178. If Venus is in the Ascendant in aspect to Mercury and Saturn, while Jupiter is in the 5th, the
native will become an emperor. However, the said Venus should be strong and in his own
Navansa simultaneously.
179. If the Sun and the Moon are in their own Houses (while one of them is) in aspect to Jupiter,
the native will become a king.
180. Mercury in Cancer and Jupiter in Sagittarius in aspect to both Mars and the Sun will make
the native a ruler.
181. Should the Moon, Jupiter and Venus be, respectively, positioned in Pisces, Cancer and
Aquarius, the native will become a ruler.
182. If Saturn is in Aquarius in aspect to Venus, while the Sun is in the 11th and the Moon in a
watery Sign, one will become a king.
183. If Mars posited in his own House is aspected by Jupiter and the Sun, or Mercury posited in
Taurus, if aspected by Jupiter, a ruler is born.
184. If the Full Moon is in her exaltation/own Rasi, or Navansa and be aspected by 5 planets
having temporary friendship, while no planet is fallen, the native will become a ruler.
185. Saturn in the 11th, Jupiter with Venus in the Ascendant, the Moon in the 10th, the Sun in the
4th, Mercury in the 2nd along with Mars: this configuration will make one a king endowed with
vast Army, wealth and conveyances.
Thus ends the 35th Ch. entitled RAJA YOGAS in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.

-- 144 of 203 --

145
Chapter 36.
Planetary Rays
1. The rays possessed by a planet are important (in delineation of a horoscope) according to
Manindhacharya. I explain below the same.
2. When in exaltation, the number of rays possessed by the Sun are 10, the Moon 9, Mars 5,
Mercury 5, Jupiter 7, Venus 8 and Saturn 5.
3-4. ANOTHER SCHOOL OF THOUGHT.
The above view is held by Manindha, Maya and Badarayana, as enunciated by Mahendra
Shastra. However, according to another school of thought, all planets uniformly possess 7
rays each, while exaltation. While these two are authoritative schools, majority lean towards
equal distribution of 7 rays. All agree, that at debilitation, the figure is zero for each planet.
5. ABHIMUKHA AND PARANMUKHA RASMI.
When a debilitated planet transits towards its exaltation Sign, the rays are Abhimukha (i.e. facing
upwards) and, when an exalted planet goes towards its debilitation Sign, the rays are
Paranmukha (facing downwards). For the intermediary positions, the rays should be
calculated by rule of three process.
6. TO ARRIVE AT NUMBER OF RAYS.
Note the position of the planet in Rasis, degrees etc., for which the number of rays is to be
computed. Deduct from this its (deep) debilitation point. If the remainder is in excess of six
Signs, reduce it again from 12. Multiply the product by the maximum number of rays allotted
to the planet concerned and divide by six. The resultant figure will represent the number of
rays obtained by the planet by virtue of its position at birth.
7-9. RECTIFICATION OF RAYS.
If the planet is in the dwadasamsa of its friend, double the product, as obtained above. If it is in its
own dwadasamsa, own Rasi, retrogression/exaltation Sign the product should be trebled. If it
is in its enemys dwadasamsa, 1/16th of the rays will be lost. The same applies to a debilitated
planet. A combust planet, excepting Venus and Saturn, loses all the rays. A planet, that has
just begun to retrograde will have two-fold rays, while the one, that has just assumed direct
motion from retrogression will lose only 1/8th of the number of rays.
10-11. EFFECTS OF NUMBER OF RASMIS TOTALLY CONTRIBUTED BY THE SEVEN
PLANETS.
If the rays be a maximum of five, the native will be miserable, is of ignoble descent, will depend
on others, be indigent and will join base men, Should it be from 6 to 10, he will be a servant,
will be intent on going to places other than of his birth (for living), be devoid of good luck and
be dirty.

-- 145 of 203 --

146
12-16. If the rays are between 11 and 15,
one will be, respectively, very learned, virtuous, righteous, beautiful and will possess merits due
to his descent. If the rays are between 16 and 20, he will be, respectively, supreme among
his men, be wealthy, be famous among men, be glorious and be honoured by his men. The
effects stated apply to the number of rays in the ascending order. If the rays are from 21 to 25
in number, the effects, respectively, are: honour, fortune, courage, scholarship and kingship.
26 rays denote a person, who will have all-round success in his efforts. 27 to 32 rays,
respectively, denote: a dependent on the king, wealth and gains through the king, minister
ship, honours from the king, royal patronage and rulership over fifty villages. 17-20. If the total
number of rays is 33, he will rule over 1000 villages, while with 34 rays he will obtain
leadership over 3000 villages. 35 rays denote abundant wealth, strength, provincial rulership,
fame, fortune etc. One will head over a lakh villages with 36 rays. Three lakh villages will
come under his control with 37/38 rays.
21-25. If the total rays be 39, he will become a ruler causing happiness to all. With 40 rays he will
rule over vast lands and the wives of the enemies crushed by him will reach their cries all
over, so that he will become prominent. One, two and three seas will be the
boundary/boundaries of the kingdom of the native/s with 41/42/43 rays. One with 44 rays will
be an emperor, will honour Gods and Brahmins, be long-lived and be mighty. According to
the rays crossing 44, one will rule over other islands, be free from obstacles, be honoured by
one and all and be equal to Indra in valour.
26. SPECIAL EFFECTS.
If the total rays are 45, or 46, the native will always enjoy auspicious effects and will lord over the
entire earth.
27. If the rays are 47, the native will undertake the responsibility of maintaining the whole earth,
be devoid of enemies, be an emperor akin to Indra and be honoured by all.
28-29. ABHIMUKHA AND PARANMUKHA.
If a planet has Abhimukha rays the good effects stated will increase, while Paranmukha rays will
reduce the good effects. More number of rays will multiply the results, while less number of
rays will diminish the effects. According to rays only, ones baseness, or excellence will come
to pass.
Thus ends the 36th Ch. entitled PLANETARY RAYS in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.

-- 146 of 203 --

147
Chapter 37.
Panchamahapurusha Yogas
1. Sri Devakirti Raja explained the Panchamahapurusha Yogas (denoting Great Men), which 1
explain below clearly.
2. Venus, Mars, Saturn, Jupiter and Mercury remaining in their respective own Houses, or
exaltation Signs, identical with Angles, cause Malavya, Ruchaka, Sasa, Hamsa and Bhadra
Yogas, respectively. The effects thereof have been elaborately explained by the ancient
preceptors, which I briefly narrate here.
3-4. MALAVYA YOGA.
One born in Malavya Yoga will have thin (not fleshy) lips, even physique, gray complexion, thin
waist, splendour equal to that of the moon, majestic voice akin to that of a tusker, pleasant
odor of the body, piercing sight, even and white teeth, hands extending to the knees and a
longevity of seventy years. His face will be 13 inches in length and 10 inch broad, while the
two ear-holes are 10 inch apart. (Angula denoted here, as an inch means 8 barley-corn-wide)
He rules Laata, Malawa and Sindhu.
5-7. RUCHAKA YOGA.
The native of Ruchaka Yoga will have a long face, pure splendour, great strength, valour,
attractive eye brows, blue (very black) hair, penchant for war, knowledge of Mantras, be a
leader of thieves, will have blood-red complexion, be very valorous, be a conqueror of
enemies, will have a neck akin to conch, be chief, cruel, will honour Gods and Brahmins, thin
shanks, will have marks of a staff (actually means a staff with a skull at the top deemed to be
Shivas weapon and carried by ascetics), cord, bull, arrow, diamond, lute etc. on the hands
and legs, will be 100 inch tall, be skilled in Mantras and black magic, will weigh 100 tulas (one
tula is 100 palas) and the circumference of his loins will correspond to the length of his face.
He will rule places consisting of Vindhya and Sahya. He will live up to seventy and will attain
his end through weapons/fire and will go to heavens.
8-10. SASA YOGA. One born in Sasa Yoga will have small teeth small face, fast pace, be crafty,
very valorous, interested in forests, hills and forts, will have weak loins and long body, be
famous, be an Army chief, skillful in all assignments, will have somewhat protruding teeth, be
a metallurgist, be fickle minded, will have eyes resembling the lotus, be interested in the fair
sex, will enjoy others wealth, be devoted to his mother, weak waist, be very intelligent and will
fault others. His hands will contain marks of couch, conch, wheel, garland, lute etc. According
to sages he will be a ruler of some place and will die at 70.
11-13. HAMSA YOGA. One born in Hamsa Yoga will have a reddish face, elevated nose,
beautiful feet, great virile power (indriya is here interpreted, as virile power coming under

-- 147 of 203 --

148
Jupiter), be whitish in complexion, will have broad cheeks, reddish nails, (mellifluous) voice,
like that of the swan, be phlegmatic, will possess palms and soles with marks of trident, fish,
arrow etc., honey-coloured and round eyes, be fond of sporting in water, will be delighted in
sexually uniting with females, will weigh 1600 tulas and be 96 inch tall. He will lord over Sura
Sena, Gandharva and places between the Ganges and Yamuna. His end will come later on
in a forest. His longevity will be hundred years.
14-15. BHADRA YOGA.
One born with the Bhadra Yoga will have a face, akin to that of a tiger, will imitate the elephant in
gait, will have broad chest, long and strong hands and square body, will be sensuous, will
have soft hair over cheeks, be learned, will possess hands and legs akin to lotus, be
endowed with prowess and will be conversant with Yoga. His palms and soles will contain
symbols of conch, sword, elephant, arrow, wheel, lotus, plough etc. His body will emanate
smell akin to earth settled with fresh drizzles (particularly first of the season), sandal paste
and elephants ichor.
16-18. BHADRA YOGA (continued).
He will know the meanings of Shastras, be valorous, will have well-knitted eye brows, will walk,
like an elephant, will have genital organs in concealed position (like that of a horse, or a
tusker) and a beautiful belly, be righteous, will have attractive fore face, be valorous, firm in
prowess, will have black and short hair, be independent in all his undertakings, will not forgive
(even) his own men, will allow his friends to enjoy his wealth, will weigh 2000 palas, will rule
over the mid portion of the country, will possess females etc., be always happy and will die at
80.
19-21. GENERAL.
He can become a monarch, if his voice is similar to the sound of a conch, drum, tusker, bull, or a
roaring cloud. In such case he will rule over the entire earth and will conquer his enemies.
One with viscid tongue, skin, teeth, eyes, nails and hair will become a ruler. If these are
rough, he will experience penury. One with glossy, splendourous and bright complexion will
become a king. Otherwise he will be poor and miserable. If these are meddling, he will be a
middle class person with wealth, children, happiness etc.
Thus ends the 37th Ch. entitled PANCHA MAHA PURUSHA YOGAS in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.

-- 148 of 203 --

149
Chapter 38.
Effects Of Natural Constituents And Primordial Compounds
1. Mars denotes ones prowess, Mercury greatness (or physical weight), Jupiter voice, Venus
splendour (or friendship) and Saturn complexion (physical brightness).
2. EFFECTS OF SATTVA GUNA.
If Sattva is predominant in a native, he will be highly merciful, will possess many wives and
attendants, will be firm in disposition, will be a sweet and truthful speaker, will honour Gods
and Brahmins and will be of forgiving temperament.
3. EFFECTS OF RAJOGUNA.
One with predominant RajoGuna will be valorous, be skillful in fine arts and literature, be fond of
uniting with women, be skillful, showy, jocular, spirited and be interested in music and
gambling.
4. EFFECTS OF TAMOGUNA.
With TamoGuna predominant, the native will be foolish, indolent, will cheat others, be irascible,
miserable, be a talebearer, be devoid of good conduct, unkempt. blind due to lasciviousness,
miserly and careless.
5. PRIMORDIAL COMPOUNDS (PANCHA BHUTAS).
According to the strengths of Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Mars and Mercury, the native will acquire
the effects of the five Tatwas, viz. Ether, Water, Air, Fire and Earth. The strongest of the
planet will impart corresponding temperament, viz. windy, bilious, or phlegmatic. If many
planets attain strengths, these derivations will be mixed.
6.EFFECTS OF AKASA TATWA (ETHER).
One with predominant characteristics of Ether will be skillful in grammar and meanings, be an
expert in justice, be bold, know ledgeable, will have a broad face and peculiar physical joints,
weak hands and feet and be quite tall.
7.EFFECTS OF JALATATWA (WATER).
The native with predominant Watery nature will be quite charming, will endure heavy loads, will
speak sweetly, be tremulous in appearance, will have many friends, be a king and will not be
lastingly bold.
8.EFFECTS OF VAYU TATWA (AIR).
One of predominant Airy nature will have an emaciated body, be easily given to anger, be deeply
merged in his work, be of wandering disposition, be liberal, fair in complexion and be an
inviolable king.
9.EFFECTS OF FIERY TATWA.

-- 149 of 203 --

150
One with predominant Fiery character, will be valorous, be hunger-stricken, be very sharp,
learned, emaciated, fair in complexion, inimical, will have beautiful arms, will be a voracious
eater and be tall.
10.EFFECTS OF PRITHVI TATWA (EARTH).
One with Earthy nature will emanate the good smell of camphor, of jasmine and of blue lotus from
his person, will enjoy abundantly, will possess voice, akin to that of a (roaring) lion, or clouds,
be firm in disposition and be endowed with prowess.
11.BIRTH WITH AKASA TATWA.
One born with the reflection of AKASA TATWA (ether) will be endowed with a physique with the
brightness of crystal and of a gem. Just as wealth confers happiness this reflection will make
one achieve effects of TriVargas (i.e. the three objects of worldly existence, viz. Dharma, or
moral merits, Artha, or attainment of riches, or worldly prosperity and Kama, or desire of
sensual enjoymentthese three ends form the well known triad excluding Moksha, or final
emancipation).
12.BIRTH WITH JALA TATWA (water).
One born with the reflection of watery tatwa will be glossy, will have the complexion of white
Durva grass, will receive protection as, if from the mother and will prosper.
13.BIRTH WITH VAYU TATWA (air).
One born with the reflection of Vayu Tatwa will be akin to black clouds (that are going just to
cause heavy rains), will emanate foul smell, be very foolish, will have a dirty and coarse
physique, be subjected to great miseries and will experience poverty, diseases, evils and
financial destruction.
14.BIRTH WITH AGNI TATWA.
One born with the reflection of Agni (fiery) Tatwa will be bright, as the burning flame, will confer
severe punishments, will conquer all his enemies and the earth by his own valour, will
possess jewels, gold etc., will attain success in all his undertakings and will be free from
diseases and grief.
15.BIRTH WITH EARTHY TATWA.
One born with the reflection of Prithwi (earth) Tatwa will emanate smell from the body akin to the
smell coming out of earth, when sprinkled with fresh drizzles. He will have charming teeth,
nails, hair and body. He will attain merits and happiness and be dear to all.
16-17. SIGNS OF PREDOMINANT WINDY TEMPERAMENT. One with predominant windy
temperament will be benumbed with cold and shivering, will speak much and will walk fast,
be fond of moving in boats, be valorous, spiteful, sickly, unfortunate, unjust, will not be very
friendly disposed, will have knowledge of music, be emaciated, be skilful in acquiring friends,
will fly in the skies in dreams, be devoid of courage and gratitude, will have rough hair, will

-- 150 of 203 --

151
have splay feet and crooked arms, be irascible, will have lost splendour and will face financial
losses.
18-19. SIGNS OF PREDOMINANT BILIOUS TEMPERAMENT. One with predominant bile will
emanate foul smell from his person, be less distressed, greatly intelligent, be easily satisfied,
will have large transparent nails, large eyes, hands and feet, will resemble an old man, will
suffer morbid heat, be a scholar, be fearless, fond of cold articles, will not fear even at the
hands of his enemies, will be affectionate to all and will be fond of food. His dreams will be
about gold, sun. light, forest-conflagration, kimsuka (a kind of tree, which yields charming red
blossoms, which however have no fragrance), precious stones, karnikara (the pericarp of a
lotus, alternatively a kind of flower with excellent hue, but no smell and hence disliked), red
lotus, eunuch, blood and lightning.
20-21. SIGNS OF PREDOMINANT PHLEGMATIC TEMPERAMENT. One with predominant
phlegmatic temperament will be wealthy, will have clung joints, be courageous and strong,
will have a bright and charming physique, be a recipient (of gifts, benefits etc.), be Sattvik, will
have voice akin to the sound of a drum and roaring clouds, be enduring, fair in complexion,
will have reddish eyes, will enjoy sweet drinks, (sometimes) will be highly inimical, be
grateful, be friendly to all and will honour elders. His dreams will be seas, rivers, coral stones,
lakes, swan, conch, stars, lily, snowfall etc. These effects are attributed by the sages.
22. LUMINARIES IN MAHAPURUSHA YOGAS.
Though Mars etc. may be strong in the respective cases of Pancha Mahapurusha Yogas (vide
Sloka 2 of this Ch.), if the Sun and the Moon are weak, the person will not attain kinghood,
but in the period of the concerned planet will be endowed with children and wealth.
Thus ends the 38th Ch. entitled GUNA TATWA PHALA in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 39.
Obstructions To RajaYogas
1. Earlier, the Yogas of kinghood have been explained. There can be some factors, which prevent
the effects of such Yogas, which I explain in this Ch..
2. Out of Mars, Saturn, Jupiter and the Sun, if two, or more be in fall and one of them
simultaneously be in the Ascendant, as the Moon is in Scorpio, the RajaYogas will become
futile.
3. The RajaYogas in the horoscope are only name sake, if the Moon being weak is in the last
Navansa of a Movable Sign, or in the 8th Navansa of a Fixed Sign, or in the first Navansa of a
Common Sign and is without aspect from any other planet.

-- 151 of 203 --

152
4. Same effects will come to pass, if all malefics occupy Angles identical with debilitation/inimical
Signs, while benefics are shunted to the 12th, 6th and 8th Houses.
5. If the Ascendant is in Vargottama position without aspect to any planet, the Raja Yogas will
only be a failure.
6. Even a hundred kingly Yogas will be of no avail, if Aquarius rises, while 3 heavenly bodies are
in their Signs of fall.
7. If there is no benefic in an Angle, or with the Moon, while 4 planets are either in fall, or in
combustion, or in inimical Signs, the RajaYogas are marred.
8. Should the Sun be in his ow n Navansa, while the Moon is in combustion and in aspect to
malefics without the aspect of benefics, the native will enjoy rulership (with the help of other
Raja Yogas) only to relinquish the kingdom soon and will become miserable.
9. Should the Moon lend her inimical aspect to the Ascendant Lord, while the Sun, Mars and
Saturn are in their order in the 3rd, 6th and 7th, the RajaYogas will become ineffective.
Benefics should in this case be not in Angles, but suffer combustion.
10. If five heavenly bodies are in fall at birth the RajaYogas will not come to pass.
11. If meteor, noise of contending winds in the sky (or earth quake, or thunder), Vyatipata, or
Upaketu be seen at the time of birth, the good RajaYogas stand nullified.
12. If Trisankhu Nakshatra (Trisankhu was a monarch of the solar race, who remained
suspended with his head towards the earth, as a constellation in the southern hemisphere)
rises at the time of ones birth, while the Ascendant is occupied by Saturn, as there is fall of a
comet, the Raja Yogas do not come to pass.
13. If the planets capable of causing Raja Yoga are inclined to enter in war, or are becoming
splendourless, or about to lose their strength, the Raja Yogas will stand cancelled.
14. If weak Moon is in her deep degree of debilitation the Raja Yogas get destroyed, just as a
king going against an astrologer.
15. The Sun in the 10th degree of Libra will destroy all Raja Yogas, just as miserliness eclipses all
the good attributes of a person.
16. This Sloka is repeated in the original. The meaning is identical with that of Sloka 15 above.
17. Even though other planets may be in their Mulatrikona, exaltation, or own Signs, while the
Sun is singly in deep fall, the Raja Yogas will be unavailable.
18. If Jupiter occupies Capricorn, as Ascendant, while the Moon is not in Cancer, the native will
become miserable, just as a penniless lewdster in the place of a courtesan.
19. If in the formation of Kemadruma Yoga, the Moon is without the aspect of another planet, the
Raja Yogas lose their existence and the native will be devoid of good conduct.
20. If 3, or more planets be in fall even the son of an emperor ruling over the entire earth will take
to begging, be miserable, be dirty and penniless.

-- 152 of 203 --

153
21. If 5 planets occupy inimical Signs, or are in combustion, while the Sun, or the Moon is not in
exaltation, the kingly Yogas will become ineffective.
22. If Venus occupy his debilitation Navansa, even a vast kingdom is deprived from the native.
23. RajaYogas have been explained earlier. The combinat ions marring such kingly states are
given in this Ch.. The stronger one of these two will only prevail.
24. RAJA YOGA.
The Sun in Virgo, Mars in Scorpio along with Jupiter, as the Moon is in Aries: this configuration
will produce a king the dust of whose elephants will darken the-skies.
Thus ends the 39th Ch. entitled OBSTRUCTIONS TO RAJAYOGAS In Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 40.
Calculation of Longevity
1. The people all over remain perplexed over the question of longevity. So I narrate the relative
principles based on the Shastras here under.
2-3. SELECTION OF SYSTEM FOR LONGEVITY COMPUTATION. Out of the triothe Sun, the
Moon and the Ascendant, if the Ascendant is the strongest, Amsayurdaya should be resorted
to. Pindayu is the best, if the Sun is predominant, while Nisargayu is the apt choice with
Moon prevailing. If the three in question are bereft of strength, then Jeevasarmas system can
be used.
4. AMSAYURDAYA CALCULATIONS.
The longitudes (counted from Aries first point) of the (seven) planets and the Ascendant should
be divided by 200 to get the number of years. The quotients in later processes should be
multiplied by the respective multipliers to get months, days and Ghatis.
5. ADDITIONS FOR ASCENDANTS CONTRIBUTION.
If the Ascendant is strong the number of years equal to the Rasis it has traversed should be
added. Months etc. thereof should be guessed by rule of three method.
6.RECTIFICATIONS FOR PLANETARY CONTRIBUTIONS.
The contribution made by a planet, that is in Vargothama, own Sign, own decanate, or own
Navansa should be doubled. If it is retrograde, or in exaltation the figure should be trebled.
7. If a planets contribution gets doubled by virtue of position in own Sign, own decanate etc. (as
per Sloka 6 above) and further warrants trebling by virtue of retrogression/exaltation, the
trebling should also be done. So say the learned.

-- 153 of 203 --

154
8. According to Chudamani Acharya, if a planet is in Angle contributions by each rectification shall
be considered. If it is in Panaphara (2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th) only two multiplications be done. If it
is in Apoklima (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th) only one (i.e. the highest) should be taken.
9. According to Varaha Mihira, if many multiplications are warranted, only the highest be
considered. But this view is not acceptable to ancestors.
10. REDUCTIONS FOR AMSAYURDAYA CONTRIBUTIONS.
If a planet is in its inimical Sign, a third of the earlier (final) figure should only be taken. If it is
combust in the Sun, only half need be computed. The contributions by Venus and Saturn do
not suffer reductions on account of their combustion.
11-12. VYAYADI (CHAKRARDHA) HARANA.
A malefic in the 12th loses all his contribution. If in the 11th half, in the 10th a third, in the 9th a
fourth, in the 8th one fifth and in the 7th one sixth of the contribution suffers. Benefics in these
places lose just half of what malefics lose. Further, if there are two, or more planets in one
and the same House, only the strongest suffers reduction.
13-15. PINDAYU.
In this system the planets from the Sun onwards through Saturn contribute, respectively, 19, 25,
15, 12, 15, 21 and 20 in their order, when they are in (deep) exaltation. From the longitude of
the planet (for which the contribution is being computed) deduct its highest exaltation degree
(counted from Aries first point). In case the minuend is greater than the subtrahend, then
increase the former by 12 Signs i.e. 360 degrees). Multiply the latest product by the number
of years allotted for the planet and divide by 12 to get years. Dividers for months equal to
Amsas (or degrees i e. 30) and for days Vikalas (i.e. 60).
16. In the case of Pindayurdaya also the same multiplications and rectifications apply. Leaving
aside a retrograde planet, one in inimical Sign loses a third, while the one in fall retains only
half of the contribution. The planet in exaltation retains the entire contribution.
17.ASCENDANTAL CONTRIBUTION IN PINDAYURDAYA.
If the Navansa Lagna Lord is strong, then the years contributed will equal the Navansas past, If,
however, the Lagna Rasi Lord is stronger, then the Rasis past up to Lagna (counted from
Aries) will be the number of years.
18-19. REDUCTION FOR RISING PLANETS.
If malefics occupy the Ascendant, convert the Ascendant into degrees, minutes etc. Multiply this
by the number of years contributed by the malefics in question. Then divide the product by
21,600. Respective products should be reduced from the earlier contributions of each of the
malefics occupying the Ascendant. (This will be the net contribution by each malefic in case
he occupies the Ascendant). If the malefics in Ascendant are aspected by the benefics suffice
it to say half of the reduction need only be done.
20. NISARGA YURDAYA.

-- 154 of 203 --

155
In the Nisargayu scheme, the planets from the Sun to Saturn contribute 20, 1, 2, 9, 18, 20 and 50,
respectively.
21. FULL SPAN OF LIFE.
The full span of life (120 years and 5 days) will be enjoyed by the native, who has Pisces
Ascendant with its 9th Navansa and Mercury in 25 degrees of Taurus, while others are in their
deep exaltation points.
22. UNLIMITED LONGEVITY.
Jupiter along with the Moon in Cancer identical with the Ascendant, Mercury with Venus in an
Angle (or separately in Angles), while the rest are in the 3rd, 6th and 11th: One with this
combination will enjoy a limitless life span.
23-24. SPAN OF FULL LIFE FOR VARIOUS ANIMALS.
The full span of life of elephants and men are 120 years and 5 days. For horses it is 32 years, for
goats etc. 16 years, for camels and donkeys 25 years, for cows and buffaloes 24 years and
for dogs 12 years. Just as for the mankind, the longevity for the various animals can be
computed. The computations should be done, as explained supra, multiplied by the figure
representing full life span and divided by 120.
25. Only those, who consume wholesome diet, those, who are virtuous, those, who have good
conduct and those, who conquer their senses will enjoy the longevity, as laid down by the
sages.
Thus ends the 40th Ch. entitled LONGEVITY CALCULATION in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 41.
Moola Dasa
1. The Dasa duration of a planet is equal to the number of years it contributes (as per Moola
Dasa scheme). All planets yield in their Dasas pleasant, or unpleasant results according to
their (natal) dispositions.
2. ORDER OF THE SCHEME.
According to Manitha, those, who are born during day time will have the Dasas commencing with
that of the Sun, while the night -born will have it from that of Venus. But this view is not
acceptable to other preceptors.
3. SATYAS VIEW.
The first Dasa will be of the strongest of the Ascendant, the Sun and the Moon followed by the
ones in Angle, Panaphara and Apoklima. This is the view held by Satyacharya.

-- 155 of 203 --

156
4-5. The first Dasa will be of the strongest of the Ascendant, the Sun and the Moon. Then the
planets in Angles will be Dasa Lords. Thereafter the planets in Panapharas (2nd, 5th, 8th and
11th Houses) will lord over the major periods, while the last Dasas will be headed by the
planets posited in Apoklimas (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th Houses). If Angles etc. are occupied by
more than one planet, the strongest will have its Dasa first. Even, if the strengths of these be
identical, then the order will be according to maximum years donated by these planets
Granting, that these durations are also similar, then the risings of planets will prevail, Even, if
one of the triad, viz. the Ascendant, the Sun and the Moon, is strong, then Satyas scheme, as
above should be resorted to. If none is strong enough, then the Dasa scheme of other
preceptors may be considered.
6. AUSPICIOUS PERIODS.
Planets in exaltation, own Rasi, own Navansa, friendly Sign, possessing full rays and those with
full strength prove auspicious in their Dasas. At the commencement of a Dasa a planet, that
is strong, or is in a friendly division, or is in aspect to a benefic will also yield similar good
results.
7. INAUSPICIOUS PERIODS.
The planet, that is in its Sign of fall, Sign ruled by an enemy, Navansa of an enemy, combust in
the Sun, devoid of splendour, or is in aspect to malefics will yield inauspicious effects in its
Dasa.
8. If a planet has departed from its exaltation, its Dasa is known, as Avarohini (stepping down)
Dasa. If, however, it is in own, or friendly divisions, the effects will be medium, i.e. neither
good nor bad. The Dasa of a planet approaching its exaltation, departing from debilitation, is
known, as Arohini (climbing) Dasa. If the said planet is in inimical, or debilitation divisions, it
will inflict difficulties.
9. The Sun is the ripener (or baker) of the effects of a Dasa, while the Moon is the sustaining
agent. That is why the Moons transit position at the time of the commencement of a Dasa
should be duly considered.
10-14. EFFECTS OF THE MOON.
If the Moon at the commencement of a Moola Dasa is in Virgo, the native throughout the period
will be related to courtesans and be associated with them. This view is held by Yavanas. If
she is in Cancer at the beginning of Dasa, the native will gain wealth through virtuous ladies.
If in Aries, or in Scorpio he will injure the honour of virgins and also bring evils to his own
female. If the Sign in question be of Mercury knowledge of Shastras and acquisition of friends
will come to pass. In a Sign of Venus, it brings plenty of food and drinks, happiness and
destruction of enemies. In a House of Jupiter, it brings happiness, wealth, honour and
commandability. Saturns Sign endows with association with old ladies. Leo denotes

-- 156 of 203 --

157
movements in forts and forests, agriculture and misunderstanding with wife and children.
These are the effects accruing out of the Moons placement at the commencement of a Dasa.
15. ASPECTS TO MOON AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF A DASA. If the Moon at the
commencement of a Dasa receives the aspect of Mars, or Saturn there will be loss of
relatives and of wealth followed by diseases. Mercurys aspect confers learning, while the
aspects of other planets will give effects according to their nature.
16. MAJOR LORDS PLACEMENT AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF A DASA. If the Lord of the
Dasa is in the Ascendant prevailing at the moment the Dasa begins, or in the 3rd, 6th, 10th, or
11th from the said Ascendant, the Dasa then proves excellent.
17-18. AGAIN MOONS PLACEMENT.
If the Moon at the commencement of a major period occupy a friendly Sign, exaltation Sign, or an
Upachaya House (3rd, 6th, 10th, or 11th House), 5th, 9th, or 7th counted from the major Lord,
good effects will come to pass in the Dasa in question. If the Moon is otherwise placed, even
a planet in exaltation at birth will give inauspicious results in its Dasa.
19. SPECIAL EFFECTS BASED ON NAVANSA.
Even though a planet may be in friendly Sign, if it occupies simultaneously a Navansa belonging
to its enemy, or be in fall in Navansa, the effects in the Dasa concerned will be mixed. A
weak planets Dasa will be futile.
20. LAGNA DASA. The Ascendants major period will prove auspicious, if it is in the first decanate
of a Movable Sign; medium in the second decanate and poor in the 3rd decanate. The reverse
is true with a Common Sign ascending, i e. third, second and first decanate will, respectively,
be auspicious, medium and poor. As for a Fixed Sign ascending first, second and third
decanates will, respectively, give poor, auspicious and medium effects.
21. NAISARGIKA DASA. The Naisargika Dasa follows in the order of the Moon, Mars, Mercury,
Venus, Jupiter, the Sun, Saturn and the Ascendant.
22-24. If the planet is exalted, or is endowed with temporal strength, or full strength, in its Dasa
incomparably auspicious results will come to pass. The planet, that is in its own Sign,
Moolatrikona Sign, own Navansa, or hemmed between benefics will yield moderately
auspicious effects. The planet, that is going towards its exaltation (departing from Sign of its
fall), or is placed in friendly Signs etc., feebly auspicious effects will be felt. Similar deductions
should be made in regard to planets otherwise placed.
25-26. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE SUN’S DASA.
If the Sun is favourable, in his Dasa, there will be gains from forests, medicines, travels, poison,
evil friendship, forests, ivory, skin, fire and royal association. Courage, diligence, intelligence,
fame and valour will be on the increase. Excellence and kingship will be achieved by the
native.
27-28. EFFECTS OF ADVERSE SUN’S DASA.

-- 157 of 203 --

158
If the Sun is adverse, in his Dasa there will be grief on account of servants, wealth, theft, eyes,
weapons, fire, water and king and the native will be tormented by children, wife and relatives
He will be interested in sinful acts and be troubled by hunger, thirst (or morbid fever), heart
ailments, bilious diseases and bodily damages.
29-30?. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE MOON’S DASA.
If the Moon is favourable, in her Dasa there will be gains through female association, soft
disposition, journey, water, ice, milk, juice, jaggery, sugar, sports, initiation into Mantras
through Brahmins, flowers, robes, sweet food etc. He will achieve success in his
undertakings out of his intelligence, will receive honours from elders and the king and will be
endowed with increased courage and wisdom.
31-32. EFFECTS OF ADVERSE MOON’S DASA.
If the Moon is evil, in her Dasa there will be fear in family, misunderstanding with ones family
members, difficulties, loss of wealth, enmity with royal assembly, sleep, indolence, evils
through women and grief.
33-34. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE MARS’ DASA.
During the Dasa of favourable Mars, one will gain through kings, fire, thieves, enemies, snakes,
poison, weapons, confinements, fictitious articles, lands, goats, buffaloes, copper, gold,
prostitutes, gambling, intoxicants, pungent articles/juices, wealth and grains.
35-36 EFFECTS OF ADVERSE MARS’ DASA.
During the Dasa of evil Mars, there will be enmity with friends, wife, children and brothers,
sufferance from thirst, swooning, bloody defects, loss of limbs and wounds. There will be
attachment to others wives and irreligious acts, followed by aversion to elders and to truth.
Bilious excesses will trouble the subject.
37-39. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE MERCURY’S DASA.
In the Dasa of favourable Mercury, there will be gains via friends, children, wealth, king,
businessmen, priests, gambling etc. The native will acquire horses, lands, gold, fame,
ambassadorship, limitless happiness, fortunes, high intelligence, fame, success in religious
activities, fond of amusement, destruction of foes and enthusiasm in mathematics and
drawings.
40. EFFECTS OF ADVERSE MERCURY’S DASA.
If Mercury is evil, in the concerned Dasa the native will be tormented by imbalances of the three
temperaments (viz. bile, phlegm and wind), hard disposition, imprisonment, mental grief and
excitement.
41-43. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE JUPITER’S DASA.
If Jupiter is favourable, the native in that Dasa will gain through ministers (or advisers), kings,
dances and statesmanship. He will gain honours, virtues, courage, wide friend ship, life

-- 158 of 203 --

159
partner, gold, quadrupeds, conveyances, auspicious acts, destruction of enemies, royal
acquaintance and will obtain wealth through public, king, businessmen and elders.
44. EFFECTS OF ADVERSE JUPITERS DASA.
If Jupiter be inauspicious one will in such Dasa have physical defects, excessive grief, lameness,
diseases of the stomach and ears, loss of semen and marrow and fear from kings.
45-46. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE VENUS DASA.
If Venus is auspicious one will in the Dasa be successful and will gain lands, residences, bed
comforts, wife, garlands, robes, good food, fame, happiness and treasure. He will have liking
for music, will develop acquaintance with females, will gain through kings and lands, will
derive wisdom, desired happiness and friends and gains through articles used for sexual
enjoyments.
47. EFFECTS OF UNFAVORABLE VENUS DASA.
If Venus is inauspicious the native will in the Dasa have litigations with virtuous people, will have
troubles from conveyances, furniture, females and kings and will develop intimacy with
unsocial elements.
48-49. EFFECTS OF FAVOURABLE SATURNS DASA.
If Saturn is favourable in his Dasa the native will gain camels, asses etc., association with
unchaste, or old ladies, gain through pulses, sesamum and grains eaten by poor people,
leadership over villages and iron etc. His people will acquire a permanent position.
50-51. EFFECTS OF ADVERSE SATURNS DASA.
If Saturn is adverse, there will be loss of conveyances, excitement, enmity, separation from wife
and other family members, loss in battles, liking for intoxicants and gambling, windy diseases,
loss of meritorious acts, confinement, lassitude, affliction to limbs and enmity with children
and servants.
52.The good and bad effects for the Dasas have been explained above in a general manner.
Narrated below are the effects arising out of spec ial considerations.
53. SUNS DASA. There are five kinds of placements, which enable us to derive five different
types of Suns Dasa. These positions are: exaltation, fall, Moolatrikona, Angle and enemys
Sign.
54-59. The Sun in Ascendant gives kingdom during his Dasa; while posited in other Kendras
ruled by inimical planets there will be disorders of hip, throat and eyes. Debilitated Sun in his
Dasa causes destruction of eyes, fever and head disorders, confinement, leprosy and other
disorders. If the Sun is exalted, there will be gain of kingdom with royal insignia in such Dasa.
Apart, there will be acquisition of elephants, steeds etc. The Dasa of the Sun placed in his
Moolatrikona will indicate destruction of all kinds of miseries and leadership of large
provinces. In the Dasa of the Sun placed in inimical Sign, one will incur affliction of eyes,
hump-back, disorders caused by fire, facial diseases and humiliation due to misconduct. The

-- 159 of 203 --

160
8th House placement of the Sun will cause in his Dasa affliction to the entire body and
wanderings in various countries.
60-65. MOONS DASA. The Moons Dasa is generally differentiated in six categories, viz. exalted,
debilitated, friendly Sign, inimical Sign and diminishing and increasing Moons Dasas. The
different dignities of the Moon give following results in the Dasa concerned: exalted kingdom,
debilitated death, inimical Sign confinement, friendly Sign association with own men,
decreasing Moon fever and disorders of abdomen, head and eyes. If the Moon is full and is
endowed with strength, in such Dasa the native will be surrounded by thousands of superior
females. If she be relegated to the 8th House, the native in such Dasa will be humiliated by his
own men, will live through machinery, grass, firewood, cowdung, bamboo, medi cinal plants,
fruits and water. He will acquire only deteriorated food and rags and even a king will have to
resort to servitude.
66-68. OTHER PLACEMENT OF PLANETS.
Those exalted in the Ascendant confer rulership of a province in their Dasas, while those in
exaltation in other Angles will bestow, wealth, conveyances and rulership of a country. If a
planet is in the 6th, the native will be subjected to evils, misfortunes etc. In the Dasa of a
planet placed in the 8th, death will be inflicted. There will only be confinement in the Dasa of a
combust planet. The Dasa of a retrograde planet will cause wanderings, like that of a wheel,
evils and enmity. This applies only to malefics in retrogression, but not to benefics.
69. Though one may be a king, he will become a servant of his own servants in the Dasas of a
planet devoid of strength, a planet totally devoid of strength, a planet in fall, a planet in deep
fall, a planet in inimical Sign and a planet in dead enemys.
70. In the Dasa of a planet placed in enemys Sign, there will be circumstances to leave ones own
country (in distress), diseases, loss of position, frequent quarrels and confinement.
71. Even a king with vast number of elephants, that can wet the earth with their ichors, will surely
wander in difficulty in the Dasa of a planet occupying an inimical Sign.
72-73. In the Dasas of the planets placed in the 6th, 5th, 9th, or 7th Houses identical with inimical
Signs, there will be troubles to limbs and secondary limbs (like the nose), while the Dasa of
the planet in the 8th House identical with its inimical House will cause beheading (or afflictions
to head), fear from enemies, wanderings in foreign places, troubles of confinement, diseases
etc. If the Dasa of a planet, that is in fall be in operation humiliation from royal sources will
follow.
74. The Native will derive (good) effects of a weak planets Dasa in dreams and thoughts. The
effects due to Pancha Maha Purusha Yogas will come to pass in the Dasas of the concerned
planets.
75. The planets in Seershodaya Signs will give their effects in the beginning of the Dasas; those
in Ubhayodaya will give in the middle of the Dasas effects due to them and those in

-- 160 of 203 --

161
Prishtodaya Signs as well, as those in fall will reveal their effects in the concluding parts of
their Dasas.
Thus ends the 41st Ch. entitled MOOLA DASA in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 42.
Effects Of Sub Periods
1. DISTRIBUTION OF SUB PERIODS TO PLANETS IN MOOLA DASA. A planet, that is conjunct
the Dasa Lord will sub rule half of the period. The sub rulership further goes to planets, as
under: one third to that in the 5th/9th from the Dasa Lord; one seventh to that in the 7th from
the Dasa Lord and one fourth to that in the 4th/8th with reference to Dasa Lord.
2-3. The sub-Lords will ripen the sub-period effects according to their own nature. Should there
be more than one planet in the Houses specified above, the strongest of them will rule over
the sub period (and not others). The sub periods of benefics will yield benefic results, while
those of malefics will give inauspicious effects. According to some authorities, planets in
Angles will first lord over the sub-periods followed by those in Panaphara (2nd, 5th, 8th and
11th) and Apoklima (3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th)
4. According to Satyacharya, the sub periods will rule according to the orders of strength in case
there is more than one planet in one House.
5. Take the fractions (as mentioned in Sloka 1) and reduce them to equivalent fractions with a
common denominator. Add up the aliquot parts of the Dasa representative of the various
numerators leaving out the denominators. The sub periods will be arrived at, when the
various aliquots are converted into years within the main Dasa and divided by a common
factor.
6-7. Planets, that are conjunct the major Lord will cause confinement and loss of wealth in their
sub periods. If, however, the major Lord is in an Angle, or in a Trine from the Ascendant,
there will be great happiness. If a planet conjunct 2, or more planets be in an inimical House,
in such sub period, only diseases, evils, quarrels and royal displeasures will come to pass.
8. In the sub period of a planet in the 7th from the Mooladasa Lord, death of wife, or the wifes
becoming a servant of an enemy, or getting attached to another man is denoted.
9-10. Death, destruction of wealth, or imprisonment will result in the sub period of the planet in
the 8th from the Moola Dasa Lord. If 2, or 3, or 4 malefics join in one House other than an
Angle, or a Trine, imprisonment, destruction and poverty will be the order of the sub period.

-- 161 of 203 --

162
11. In the sub period of a planet in the 4th from the Moola Dasa Lord there will be gain through
friends, happiness and increased honours.
12. SUN DASA MOON BHUKTI. In the major period of the Sun, the Moons sub period will
subdue the valour of the enemies of the native. He will gain health, wealth and happiness.
13. SUN DASA MARS BHUKTI. In the sub period of Mars and in the major period of the Sun, the
native gain corals, gold, success in battle, splendour and happiness.
14. SUN DASA MERCURY BHUKTI. In the sub period of Mercury under the Suns major period,
the native will suffer from itch, leprosy etc. and will face increase of enemies.
15. SUN DASA JUPITER BHUKTI. If the Sub period of Jupiter be in operation in the major period
of the Sun, there will be destruction of diseases, enemies, sins and poverty and gain of
virtues and happiness.
16. SUN DASA VENUS BHUKTI. In the sub period of Venus under the Suns major period, one
will suffer from head throat diseases, fever and gout, followed by defeat from enemies and
leaving the native country.
17. SUN DASA SATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn and in the major period of the Sun, there will be royal wrath, poverty
and defeat from enemies.
18. MOON DASA SUN BHUKTI.
During the Suns sub period, in the major period of the Moon, the native will suffer from
tuberculosis, but will be valorous, will earn wealth through kings and will enjoy all kinds of
monetary gains.
19. MOON DASA MARS BHUKTI.
In the major period of the Moon and in the sub period of Mars, there will be bilious complaints,
diseases of the blood, fear from fire, evils, ill health and fear from thieves.
20. MOON DASA MERCURY BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Mercury and in the major period of the Moon, one will gain positions with
formal seal (or insignia), elephants, horses and wealth and will enjoy incomparable
happiness.
21. MOON DASA JUPITER SUB PERIOD.
In the major period of the Moon and in the sub period of Jupiter, there will be gain of wealth,
sudden acquisition of robes, jewels and conveyances.
22. MOON DASA VENUS BHUKTI.
In the major period of the Moon and in the sub period of Venus, there will be acquisition of
conveyances run in waters, robes, ornaments and many wives.
23. MOON DASA SATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn in the major period of the Moon, there will be separation from ones
own men, fear from diseases and great grief.

-- 162 of 203 --

163
24 MARS DASA SUN BHUKTI.
If the Suns sub period, in the major period of Mars be in operation, the native will be fierce,
valorous, be honoured by the king, be successful in battle and will acquire wealth in various
ways.
25. MARS DASA MOON BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Moon in the major period of Mars, the native will procure wealth in various
ways, be happy, will have many friends and plenty of corals etc.
26. MARS DASA MERCURY BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Mercury under the major period of Mars, one will have fear from thieves and
enemies, loss of horses and elephants and burning sensation.
27. MARS DASA JUPITER BHUKTI.
In Mars Dasa and in Jupiters sub period there will be good conduct, virtues, meritorious acts etc.
28. MARS DASA VENUS BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Venus in the major period of Mars, the native will have fear of war, diseases,
evils and loss of wealth.
29. MARS DASA SATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn, in the major period of Mars, there will be evils after evils and loss of
wealth and of near and dear.
30. MERCURY DASA SUN BHUKTI.
There will be sudden income of wealth, gold, horses, cora1, elephants etc. in tl1e sub period of
the Sun and in the major period of Mercury.
31. MERCURY DASA MOON BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Moon in the major period of Mercury, one will be afflicted by itch, leprosy,
tuberculosis, loss of limbs, fear from elephants and destruction of conveyances.
32. MERCURY DASA MARS BHUKTI.
During the sub rulership of Mars in the major period of Mercury, there will be diseases of the
head, gout, many kinds of miseries etc.
33. MERCURY DASA JUPITER BHUKTI.
One will be free from enemies, diseases and sins, be virtuous and become a royal adviser in the
sub period of Jupiter under the major leadership of Mercury.
34. MERCURY DASA VENUS BHUKTl.
If the sub period of Venus be in operation in the major period of Mercury, one will honour elders,
Gods and guests and will acquire robes and ornaments.
35. MERCURY DASA SATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn in the major period of Mercury the native will seek sexual gratification,
like a eunuch (or, like a bull) and be deprived of virtues, wealth, pleasures and issues.
36. JUPITER DASA SUN BHUKTI.

-- 163 of 203 --

164
The native will be free from enemies and diseases and will be honoured by the king in the sub
period of the Sun in the major period of Jupiter. He will either be endowed with valour and
happiness.
37. JUPITER DASA MOON BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Moon in the Dasa of Jupiter one will marry a thousand women, will
conquer diseases and enemies and will prosper in all fronts akin to a king.
38. JUPITER DASA MARS BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Mars in the major period of Jupiter, one will be rude, will win over enemies,
be valorous, be famous in war and will enjoy all kinds of happiness.
39.JUPITER DASA MERCURY BHUKTI.
There will be destruction of diseases, acquisition of friends and respect for parents in the sub
period of Mercury in the major period of Jupiter.
40.JUPITER DASA VENUS BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Venus in the major period of Jupiter, the native will have fear from enemies,
will face destruction and grief and will live through Brahmins.
41.JUPITER DASA SATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn and in the major period of Jupiter, the native will be attached to
prostitutes and intoxicants and will be insulted in gambling. He will be endowed with buffaloes
and asses and be devoid of virtues.
42. VENUS DASA SUN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Sun in the major period of Venus, there will be disease, of the throat,
stomach and eyes and punishments from the king.
43. VENUS DASA MOON BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Moon in the major period of Venus one will suffer from diseases of nails,
teeth and head apart from jaundice.
44. VENUS DASA MARS BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Mars and in the major period of Venus, one will suffer from diseases related
to blood and bile, will gain lands, royal patronage and enthusiasm.
45. VENUS DASA MERCURY SUB PERIOD.
In the sub period of Mercury and in the major period of Venus one will gain through women and
will enjoy happiness and fulfilment of desires.
46. VENUS DASA JUPITER BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Jupiter in the major period of Venus, there will be growth of virtues, good
qualities and wealth and acquisition of kingdom.
47. VENUS DASASATURN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Saturn and in the major period of Venus, one will sport with old women (i. e.
be associated with them), will head over cities, men etc. and will destroy enemies.

-- 164 of 203 --

165
48. SATURN DASASUN BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Sun in the major period of Saturn, there will be destruction of wealth, wife
and children and abundant fear from enemies.
49. SATURN DASA MOON BHUKTI.
In the sub period of the Moon and in the major period of Saturn, one will lose his wife, or she will
be kidnapped. The native will incur separation from relatives, or enmity with them.
50. SATURN DASAMARS BHUKTI.
During the sub period of Mars in the major per iod of Saturn, one will leave the country (in adverse
circumstances) and will incur diseases and grief in many matters.
51. SATURN DASAMERCURY BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Mercury in the major period of Saturn, the native will enjoy fortunes,
happiness, success and honour and will financially gain.
52. SATURN DASAJUPITER BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Jupiter and in the major period of Saturn, one will gain a high position and will
acquire villages and happiness from his wife.
53. SATURN DASAVENUS BHUKTI.
In the sub period of Venus and in the major period of Saturn, one will have increased number of
friends, freedom from grief, increase of fame, happiness from wife, wealth and success.
54-57. SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS.
The effects of sub periods, as above will stand modified according to the exaltation, fall etc. of the
planet. One will have abundant income, happiness etc. in the major period of a benefic planet
and in the sub period of another benefic planet. If a planet is combust, during such planets
period, one will have a dirty body and will incur destruction of wealth, happiness, valour,
beauty and enthusiasm. In the Dasa of planets inimical to Ascendant Lord, or to the Moon
Sign Lord, one will be very foolish, will be deprived of kingdom, will be insulted by enemies
and will depend on others.
58. The planet, that is close to the 10th cusp will confer kingdom. If there is none in the 10th, the
strongest of the planets will give the said effect.
59. One will be opulent, if Mercury, Jupiter and Venus occupy the Ascendant, Saturn the 7th and
the Sun the 10th. If Angles are occupied by benefics, while malefic planets are not there, the
native will be wealthy becoming leader of forest tribes.
Thus ends the 42nd Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF SUB-PERIODS in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.

-- 165 of 203 --

166
Chapter 43.
Evil Effects Of Dasa
1-4. In the sub period of a malefic planet and in the major period of another malefic, the native will
be troubled by doubts and enemies. It is certain, that death will be inflicted upon the native
though he may have long life indications, in the Dasa of Mars and in the sub period of Saturn.
If a malefic is in the 6th, or the 8th in aspect to another malefic placed in a malefics Sign, death
will come to pass. In the Dasa of a planet, that is inimical to Ascendant Lord and in the sub
period of the Ascendant Lord himself, there may be death, according to Satya.
Thus ends the 43rd Ch. entitled EVIL EFFECTS OF DASAS in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 44.
Antidotes For Evils Of Dasas
1-3. If at the time of commencement of a Dasa, even, if one planet occupies the divisions of a
benefic, or of an intimate friend and is aspected by a benefic, the evils due to come out of the
said Dasa will disappear. If the Lord of the Dasa is not strong enough to cause evil, while the
planet functioning, as an antidote (as stated in the previous Sloka) is stronger, the evils are
then surely destroyed. Even, if a single planet occupies its exaltation Sign, Moolatrikona Sign,
or own Sign and is aspected by a benefic, or is conjunct a benefic, at the start of a Dasa the
evils of the Dasa are nullified.
Thus ends the 44th Ch. entitled ANTIDOTES FOR EVILS OF DASAS in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 45.
Effects of Planetary Dignities
1-4. EFFECTS OF EXALTED PLANETS.
If the Sun is exalted at birth, the native will be fierce, be very wealthy and be pre-eminent.
With exalted Moon, one will enjoy sweet food, possess superior clothes and will acquire good
ornaments. If Mars is exalted the native will be splendourous, valorous, blame worthy and will
live in other places.
When Mercury is exalted the native will be intelligent, be supreme among his family members and
be a skillful speaker. One will be famous, wealthy, learned, honourable and skillful with the
exaltation of Jupiter.
If Venus is exalted one will be fond of sports, amusements, music, dance etc.

-- 166 of 203 --

167
Saturns exaltation denotes association with royal assignment, leadership over villages and towns,
gain of forest-born grains and mean females.
5-7? EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN MOOLA TRIKONAS.
Should the Sun be in his Moolatrikona Sign, the native will be wealthy, intelligent and skillful.
The Moon in Moolatrikona indicates one with enjoyments and virtues.
Mars in Moolatrikona will make one a leader of thieves, adventurous and unkind.
The placement of Mercury in his Moolatrikona Sign denotes a jocular and successful person.
One will be helpful to others, be preeminent and will have knowledge of justice with Jupiter in
Moolatrikona.
Venus in such a Sign will make one a prominent person in his village/town, wealthy and fortunate.
If Saturn is so posited the native belongs to a good family, be wealthy and valorous.
8-11. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN OWN SIGNS.
If the Sun is placed in his own Sign, the native will be very fierce and will do very great acts.
The Moon in her own Sign denotes one virtuously disposed, who is very intelligent and beautiful.
If Mars occupies such a Sign, the native will be opulent, impetuous and firm in disposition.
Should Mercury occupy his own Sign the native will be a sweet speaker and be learned.
If Jupiter be in his own Sign one will be versed in Vedas, literature etc., be rich and will perform
great deeds.
If Venus be in his own Sign one will be farmer and a rich person.
Should Saturn be in his own House, the native will be honourable and happy.
12-14. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN FRIENDLY SIGNS.
If the Sun is in a friendly Sign, one will be firm in friendship and be charitable.
The Moon in a friendly Sign denotes the native will be happy and very honourable.
Mars placed in friendly Sign will make one protect the wealth of friends.
On will be skilful, jocular and rich, with Mercury in a friendly Sign.
Jupiter in a friendly Sign will make one respectable and a performer of famous deeds.
If Venus be in a friendly Sign the native will be fond of friends, rich and adventurous.
Saturn in a Sign of his friend will force the native to depend on other for food and inclined to do
unethical deeds.
15-18. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN DEBILITATION.
The various planets in fall denote the under mentioned effects: The Sun in debilitation causes
servitude and humiliation in the hands of ones own men. The Moon in debilitation causes one
to be not very meritorious in his acts, sickly and unfortunate. Mars in debilitation causes evils,
distressed mind and meanness. Mercury in debilitation indicates one to be mean and causes
enmity with his cousins and other relatives. Jupiter in debilitation brings dirtiness, dishonour
and utter poverty. Venus in debilitation causes subordination, loss of wife and crooked

-- 167 of 203 --

168
disposition. Saturn in debilitation causes fall into adversity, blameworthy conduct and
pennilessness.
19-21 l/2 EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN INIMICAL SIGNS.
If the Sun is placed in an inimical Sign, the native will be poor and be sensually tormented.
Should the Moon be so placed, one will be devoid of beauty (or brightness) and will suffer from
heart diseases.
Mars in an inimical Sign denotes, that native will face confinement and defeat at the hands of
enemies, poverty, distress and misfortunes.
If Mercury be placed in a Sign, that is ruled by his enemy, the subject will be devoid of
intelligence, will experience many miseries and will be very poor.
Should Venus be in his enemys Sign, this person concerned will be a servant, will resort to wrong
ways of doing things and be very miserable.
If Jupiter is placed in a Sign owned by his enemy, one will be a eunuch and be devoid of justice
and wealth.
When Saturn occupies an inimical camp, the native will be dirty and be distressed due to
diseases and the like.
22.EFFECTS IN NAVANSA.
If a planet is in its exaltation Navansa, the (good) effects due to the planet will be full. If it is in its
own Navansa, it will give such results, as applicable to its own Rasi placement. If it is in
Navansas of its enemy, or of fall, the (good) effects will be quite little, while moderate results
will come to pass, if it is in a friendly Navansa.
23-26. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN EXALTATION.
If two planets are simultaneously exalted at birth, the native will be rich and famous.
Three planets in simultaneous exaltation will make one head a town, wealthy and an Army chief.
If four are so placed, that they are in exaltation, one will be rich, be honoured by the king and will
be of regal disposition.
Should five heavenly bodies occupy their exaltation Signs the native will be famous, be a kings
patron and be very rich.
When six planets are posited in their exaltation Signs, the person will be a king, be charitable,
honourable and endowed with many conveyances.
When all are in their respective exaltation Signs, the native will be an emperor ruling over the land
surrounded by seas.
27-31. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN MOOLATRIKONA SIGNS. If two planets be so placed,
as to be in Moolatrikona Signs, the native will be a householder contributing to the growth of
his race, be pre-eminent and famous.
When three planets are similarly posited one will be quite wealthy and will head a group of men,
or villages.

-- 168 of 203 --

169
If four planets occupy their Moolatrikona Rasis, the native will be very wealthy, will receive royal
honours and be dear to all.
Should five be so placed, as they are in Moolatrikonas one will be a protector, be principal among
men, will head an Army, town and royal treasury, be a householder and be very happy. With
six planets disposed in their Moolatrikona Rasis, though one may belong to a cowherds race,
he will be endowed with learning, charitable and various kinds of wealth, will acquire a
kingdom and be famous.
If seven are in their Moolatrikona Rasis, one will become a king, be endowed with wealth, wife,
strength, learning and be skilful in archery.
32-34. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN OWN HOUSES.
If two planets are in their own Houses at birth, one will be important in his race, be honoured by
his relatives and be fortunate.
Three planets occupying own Houses indicate growth of the dynasty (i.e. birth of children),
acquisition of wealth, position and fame.
If four planets occupy their own Houses, one will be famous, will perform significant acts and will
lead over men and cities.
If five planets be placed in their own Houses, the native will be equal to a king, be endowed with
abundant quadrupeds, lands and females.
If six planets are in their own Houses, one will acquire famous titles, abundant wealth, relatives
and honours and one born in a royal family will become, a ruler.
If seven planets be so placed one will be a king of kings and will conquer his enemies.
35-37?. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN FRIENDLY HOUSES. If two planets occupy their
friendly Sign, the native will be endowed with the company of friends and will have good
conduct.
If three are so, one will patronize his relatives, be endowed with good qualities and be pre-
eminent.
If four are so, one will honour Brahmins and Gods, be skilful and be famous.
If five are so, one will serve the king, be wealthy and be chief of men.
When six are so, one will have wide enjoyments, abundant conveyances and wealth and be
equal to a king.
With seven planets in such placement one will have many servants, many conveyances,
paraphernalia and be a king.
38-41. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN FALL.
If two planets occupy their Signs of fall, one will be mean in thoughts and be very irascible.
Three being so, he will be foolish, not virtuous, be poor and be a servant.
Four being so, he will be indolent, be devoid of (useful) deeds and be a servant.
Five being so, he will be bereft of a house and a female and be a servant.

-- 169 of 203 --

170
Six being so, he will be tormented by fear and labour and be emaciated.
All being so, he will eke out his food by begging, be devoid of everything and will wear torn robes,
or will wander without clothes.
42-45. EFFECTS OF MORE PLANETS IN INIMICAL CAMPS.
If there are two planets, that are placed in inimical sings one will be miserable and ever fond of
quarrels and be subjected to humiliation.
With three such planets he will be tormented by many expenses and miseries and will lose wealth
in spite of hard labour.
With four being so placed, he will be at a loss in regard to his near and dear and wealth.
Five heavenly bodies in such a state indicate, that the native will be troubled by many evils.
With six planets in inimical camps, he will be very miserable.
If seven planets are in their inimical Signs, the native belongs to a loathsome family and will be
devoid of food, robes, beds etc.
Thus ends the 45th Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF PLANETARY DIGNITIES in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 46.
Female Horoscopy
l. Whatever horoscopic effects have been stated for males are equally applicable to females too.
Explained in this Ch. are rules peculiar to the fair sex.
2. IMPORTANT HOUSES.
From the 8th House, her widowhood can be deduced, while the Ascendant deals with her
physique, the 7th House with her husbands good fortunes and the 5th House with her
offspring.
3-4. THE MOON AND ASCENDANT.
If the Moon and the Ascendant are both disposed in even Signs, the female will be virtuous and
extremely good-looking. Should these two be in aspect to auspicious planets, she will be
endowed with ornaments and virtues. In case these two occupy odd Signs, she will be akin to
a male in appearance and in disposition. With these two receiving aspects of malefics, she
will be sinful and bereft of virtues.
5. TRIMSAMSA POSITIONS.
Note the stronger of the Moon and the Ascendant. Whoever of the two is placed in the
Trimsamsa of Mars, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, or Saturn, such effects will come to pass, (as
detailed below).

-- 170 of 203 --

171
6-10?. EFFECTS OF THE MOON/ASCENDANT IN VARIOUS TRIMSAMSAS. If it is a Sign
owned by Mars, the Trimsamsa of Mars denotes a harlot, that of Venus a female devoid of
virtuous history, that of Mercury one with cunning disposition, that of Jupiter a chaste lady
and that of Saturn one in servitude. Should a Sign of Mercury house the Moon/the Ascendant
in the Trimsamsa of Mars, the female will be cunning, in the Trimsamsa of Venus one with
high degree of lust, in the Trimsamsa of Mercury a chaste girl, in the Trimsamsa of Jupiter a
virtuous housewife and in that of Saturn impotent. If it is a Sign of Venus, the Trimsamsa of
Mars denotes a female with wicked nature, Venusian Trimsamsa one with fame for her
virtues, Mercurial Trimsamsa skilful, Jupiterian Trimsamsa a virtuous female and Saturns
Trimsamsa a woman given in marriage, as a second wife. In the Sign owned by the Moon the
Trimsamsa of Mars bestows her freedom not due to a housewife, Venusian Trimsamsa will
make her unchaste, Mercurial Trimsamsa will bestow skill in arts, Jupiterian Trimsamsa will
make her quite virtuous and in Saturns Trimsamsa she will betray her husband. In Leo the
Trimsamsa of Mars will make the female garrulous, Venusian Trimsamsa chaste, Mercurial
Trimsamsa male-natured, Jupiterian Trimsamsa a queen and Saturn s Trimsamsa fallen.
11-13. TRIMSAMSA EFFECTS (continued).
In a Sign of Jupiter the Trimsamsa of Mars will make her a gentlewoman with many (of the seven
principal) virtues, the Trimsamsa of Venus a female with evil speech, the Trimsamsa of
Mercury one with knowledge, the Trimsamsa of Jupiter one with many virtues and the
Trimsamsa of Saturn a female desiring limited physical union. Lastly in a Sign owned by
Saturn, a Trimsamsa of Mars will make one servant, that of Venus intelligent, that of Mercury
cruel and devoid of conduct, that of Jupiter a chaste lady and that of Saturn himself one
addicted to base men.
14. BEASTLY LUST OF A FEMALE.
When Venus and Saturn are in mutual aspects in the case of a birth in Taurus, or Libra
Ascendant with Saturns Navansa, the female concerned burnt with sexual lust will unite with
a woman playing the role of a male. Venus and Saturn should simultaneously be in exchange
in Navansas owned by them.
15-17. THE 7th HOUSE.
Should the 7th House be vacant, her husband will be a contemptible fellow. With the said House
bereft of aspect of a benefic, he will be bereft of strength. He will be disposed to living in other
places, if the 7th House is a Movable Sign. He will be a eunuch with Mercury, or Saturn in the
7th House. She will be discarded by her husband, if the Sun is in her 7th House. Mars in the
said House will cause early widowhood, while Saturn in the 7th with malefic aspects will make
her old soon. Again she will be given up by her husband with malefics being weak and
combust in the 7th receiving aspects from malefics. Benefics and malefics combust in the 7th
will give away the woman native in second marriage.

-- 171 of 203 --

172
18. UNCHASTITY.
If Venus and Mars exchange their divisions, the female will go after other males. If the Moon be
simultaneously in the 7th House, she will join others with consent of her husband.
19. MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
If a Sign of Mars, or Saturn be ascending with Venus and the Moon in it in aspect to malefics, the
female along with her mother may be deemed unchaste.
20. MISCELLANEOUS.
If the 7th House falls in a Navansa of Mars and be in aspect to the Moon (Saturn, according to
some texts), the female will have a diseased vagina. A Navansa of Venus denotes a
fortunate female, who will be dear to her husband.
21-24. EFFECTS OF RULERS OF 7th HOUSE/NAVANSA.
If the 7th House, or its Navansa be ruled by Saturn, the females husband will be old and foolish.
The ruler ship of Mars in such a case will give a husband, who will be addicted to other
women and be irascible. If Venus heads the 7th House, or its Navansa the husband will be
very beautiful and be fortunate. The husband will be skilful and knowledgeable, if Mercury be
such a planet. A sexually tormented husband, who will, however, be soft in disposition will be
bestowed by the Moon in such circumstances. The husband will be virtuous and be a
conqueror of the five senses, if Jupiter rules the 7th House, or its Navansa. Leo, as the 7th
House, or the 7th Navansa will indicate an industrious and a very intelligent husband. Thus
the effects relating to the rulership of the 7th House and 7th Navansa be declared in respect of
males.
25-26. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN THE ASCENDANT.
She will be jealously disposed and be happy with Venus and the Moon in the Ascendant. Mercury
replacing Venus in the said Yoga will make the female happy, skilful in arts, virtuous and
modest. If Mercury and Venus are together in the Ascendant, the female will be beautiful,
fortunate and skilful in arts. Benefics in the Ascendant will endow a female with servants,
happiness and robes, while malefics give adverse effects in regard to these.
27. EFFECTS OF THE 8th HOUSE.
Malefics in the 8th will cause widowhood. This will occur in the Dasa periods of the Lord of the
Navansa occupied by the 8th Lord. A benefic in the 2nd will, however, cause the females death
in this Yoga, instead of widowhood.
28. LIMITED PROGENY.
If the 5th House be one of Virgo, Scorpio, Taurus and Leo receiving the aspect of a benefic, there
will be limited number of children Alternatively, the said 5th House may be conjunct a benefic,
or the Moon.
29. FEMALE WITH MASCULINE DISPOSITION.

-- 172 of 203 --

173
Should Mercury, Venus and the Moon be in the Ascendant and be weak, while Saturn has
moderate strength, as the rest are strong, the female concerned will be akin to a male in
appearance and in acts. The Ascendant should in this case necessarily be an odd Sign.
30. TAKING TO RELIGIOUS ORDER.
A female will be initiated into a religious order, if a malefic is in the 7th House, while the 9th House
is occupied by any planet. The order will relate to the planet in the 7th House.
31. VEDIC EXPONENT.
If strong Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, or the Moon be in the Ascendant identical with an even Sign,
the female will be a teacher/exponent of Vedas (or be a follower of Vedanta Philosophy). And
she will be an expert in interpretation of various Shastras.
32. APPLICATION.
Whatever has been stated in this Ch. should be wisely applied to females relating to their births,
selection of grooms, marriage and query. These effects are applicable to their husbands also.
Thus ends the 46th Ch. entitled FEMALE HOROSCOPY in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 47.
Aphorisms of Death
1.REASONS OF DEATH.
If the 8th House is occupied by any planet from the Sun to Saturn, the reason for death in the
same order will be fire, water, weapon, fever, indigestion (or constipation), thirst and hunger.
According to the 8th House being a Movable, Fixed, or Dual Sign, the place of death will be a
foreign place, own place, or on the way.
2. Death may be due to the imbalance of that humour belonging to the planet aspecting the 8th
House. If there is no planet in the 8th House, the aspecting one may indicate the kind of
death. If many are thus related, the strongest one will prevail.
3. DEATH BY DROWNING, FALL ETC.
If the 10th and 4th are occupied by the Sun and Mars, the native will die due to fall from hills. If the
10th, 7th and 4th Houses are occupied by Mars, Mercury and Saturn, it may be due to fall in a
well. Death due to imprisonment will follow, if the Luminaries are placed in Virgo in aspect to
malefics. The end will be by drowning, if Pisces is occupied by the Sun and the Moon.
4-5. DEATH BY FIRE ETC.
If the Moon and Saturn, respectively, are in Capricorn and Cancer, death will be due to affliction
of stomach. If the Moon be hemmed between malefics and occupies a Sign of Mars,

-- 173 of 203 --

174
fire/weapons will cause death. Death will be certainly inflicted by dryness of blood, if the
Moon is in Virgo hemmed between malefics.
6-7. DEATH BY HANGING ETC.
If the Moon in Capricorn, or Aquarius be hemmed between benefics, death will be due to
hanging, fire, or fall, which is doubtless according to Chanakya. The same effect will come to
pass, if the 5th and 9th Houses are occupied by malefics in aspect to malefics. If the drekkana
of the 8th House be one of Pasa, Sarpa and Nigala, death will be reticent.
8. DEATH DUE TO A FEMALE.
If the Sun be in Pisces Ascendant, while the Moon is in the 7th (in Virgo), or in the 2nd in Aries, or
in the 5th in Cancer, a female will be reason for the natives end.
9. DEATH DUE TO A TRIDENTS HIT.
If the 4th House is occupied by Mars, or the Sun, while Saturn is conjunct weak Moon in the 10th
House and malefics are in the Ascendant and its Trines, hit of a trident will cause the end.
10. DEATH BY HIT OF WOOD.
If the Sun is in the 4th, while the Moon devoid of strength is in the 10th along with Mars, or in
aspect to Saturn, the native will be hit by a log.
11. DEATH BY HIT OF A CLUB etc.
If weak Moon, Mars, Sun and Mercury along with Saturn are in the 10th, 8th, 4th and Ascendant (in
any way), the subject will have his end due to a club beat. If these planets fill the 10th, 9th, 5th
and Ascendant, death will be by smoke, fire, confinement, or a blow of fist.
12. DEATH DUE TO ROYAL WRATH.
If the 4th, 7th and 10th Houses are occupied by Mars, the Sun and Saturn, death will be due to
weapon, fire, or royal wrath.
13-14. DEATH DUE TO INSECTS, INTOXICANTS AND MACHINERY. Ones end will be due to
insects, if the 10th, 4th and 2nd Houses at his birth are occupied by Mars, the Moon and
Saturn. If the 10th House is constellated by the Luminaries and Mars, the native will end his
life on account of intoxicants, or fall from height. Machinery will be the source of ones death,
if the 7th House is occupied by Mars, as the trio of weak Moon, Saturn and the Sun afflict
Ascendant by occupation.
15-16. DEATH IN FILTHY SURROUNDINGS.
One will die amidst ordure, if Mars is in Libra, the Sun in Aries/Scorpio and the Moon in
Capricorn/Aquarius. The Sun, weak Moon and Mars in the 8th, 10th and 4th Houses, will kill
one amidst excrement. So says Siddhasena.
17-18. DEATH BY THIRST, WEAPONS AND BIRDS.
If the 8th House contains both the weak Moon and Saturn in aspect to strong Mars, the subject
will die due to spleen disorders, colic, thirst, or weapons. The Sun and Mars in the 7th, while
Saturn occupies the 8th and the Moon the 4th, ones death will be caused by birds.

-- 174 of 203 --

175
19. If the Ascendant, 8th, 5th and 9th Houses are occupied by the Sun, Mars, Saturn and the
Moon, death will be due to fall from a hill, hit of a weapon, or fall of a wall etc.
20. Yavanas indicate, that the place of death will correspond to the Navansa Lagna Lord. The
aphorisms stated in this Ch. should be suitably interpreted according to other aspects and
other conjunctions.
21. The duration of the state of loss of consciousness (or insensibility, delusion, pain etc.) will
correspond to the portion elapsed in the radical Ascendant. The duration will remain doubled
and trebled according to the Ascendant Lord, or a benefic aspecting the Ascendant.
22. KHARA DREKKANA.
The 22nd decanate from the Ascendant will denote the nature of ones death. For example, by the
nature of its Lord, (i.e. the humour, place etc.)
23-24. EFFECTS OF ARIES DECANATES AS RELATED TO DEATH. If the first decanate of
Aries be the 22nd decanate from the Ascendant and be in aspect to a malefic the natives
death will be due to water (i.e. drowning etc.), snake, poison, or bilious imbalances. If the 2nd
decanate of Aries be so related, water, insects, ice and forests will cause death. The 3rd
decanate of Aries denotes tanks, well etc.
25-26. DECANATES IN TAURUS.
If the first decanate of Taurus be the 22nd decanate at birth, death will be caused by animals, like
ox, horse, donkey, camel etc. The second decanate in Taurus denotes the end due to
bilious/windy complaints, fire and thieves. The concluding decanate of Taurus leads to ones
death in journey, or due to fall from the back of a horse, or due to hit by weapon in battle.
27-28. DECANATES IN GEMINI.
If the first decanate of Gemini be the 22nd decanate at birth, ones end will be due to tuberculosis,
or pulmonary disorders. The second decanate in Gemini identical with 22nd decanate denotes
death through a buffalo, or through poison, or delirium. If the 3rd decanate in Gemini becomes
the 22nd decanate the end will be through forest tribes, quadrupeds in general, or elephants in
particular.
29-30. DECANATES IN CANCER.
If the 22nd decanate is the first decanate of Cancer, the reason of death will be a crocodile (or a
shark), wine, thorn, or dreams. The second decanate will cause end by beating, or by
consuming of poison. The terminating decanate indicates death by respiratory diseases,
urinary diseases (viz. gleet, diabetes etc.), spleenary disorders, affliction to blood, or by
swooning caused by excessive labor.
31-32. DECANATES IN LEO.
The 22nd decanate identical with the first decanate of Leo will cause ones end due to water,
poison, or diseases of the foot. The second decanate of Leo indicates death by diseases

-- 175 of 203 --

176
caused by water, or movements in forests. The last decanate thereof will bring ones end
through poison, weapons, calumny, or fall from heights.
33-34. DECANATES IN VIRGO.
Should the death decanate be the first decanate in Virgo, ones life will end due to diseases of the
head, or by wind, (gale, hurricane, or outburst of violent wind etc.,) The middle decanate in
Virgo will cause death by snake-bites, or in hills, forts, forests etc., or by the son of a king.
The concluding decanate in Virgo will bring death by camels, asses, weapons, water, deep
pits, females and unhealthy eating and drinking.
35. DECANATES IN LIBRA.
When the 22nd decanate at birth is held by the first decanate of Libra, death will be through a
female, or quadrupeds, or fall from heights. The middle decanate of Libra denotes end on
account of stomach diseases, while last decanate indicates snakes, or animals living in
water, as a source of death.
36-37. DECANATES IN SCORPIO.
The first decanate in Scorpio, if designated, as the 22nd decanate at birth, poison, weapons,
females, (unhealthy) food and drinks will bring ones death. The second decanate in Scorpio
indicates death through robes, weights, falls and diseases. The last decanate of Scorpio will
inflict death by being stoned, or by breakage of shank bones.
38-39. DECANATES IN SAGITTARIUS.
The first decanate of Sagittarius being the 22nd decanate at birth, denotes, that death will be due
to various windy disorders, or due to diseases of the anus. The second decanate will cause
ones end to poison, or faults of elders, or windy diseases. The concluding decanate will inflict
death in water, or through abdominal disorders.
40-41. DECANATES IN CAPRICORN.
The opening decanate of Capricorn will bring death through royal torture, or through tigers. The
middle decanate will inflict death on account of damage to thighs, or through
creatures/animals living in water, poison, snake, fire, weapons, robbers, fever and living
beings other than human beings. The last decanate will bring end through a female.
42-43. DECANATES IN AQUARIUS.
The first decanate in Aquarius will bring death through females, water, hills, elephants and
stomach disorders. The middle decanate denotes ones end through miseries caused by a
female, venereal diseases etc., while the third decanate will cause death through copulation,
facial diseases and quadrupeds.
44-15. DECANATES IN PISCES.
If the first decanate of Pisces be related to death, it will be due to diarrhea, spleen, or urinary
disorders affliction to stomach/thighs, females, elephants, or planetary evils. If the second

-- 176 of 203 --

177
decanate be so related, ones end of life will come through a tragedy in a boat and the third
one denotes death due to dreaded diseases.
Thus ends the 47th Ch. entitled APHORISMS OF DEATH in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 48.
Lost Horoscopy
1. When the time of birth, or time of conception is unknown, through horary method the lost birth
details can be traced.
2. The effects of ten divisions (Dasa Vargas) will help to arrive at the natal Ascendant. These ten
divisions are explained infra, the first being the effects of Ascendant.
3-6. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN ARIES ASCENDANT.
One born in Aries Ascendant will be highly susceptible to fire, be interested in visiting foreign
places, be miserly in disposition, emaciated, not happy, be jealous, stammering in speech,
troubled by bilious and windy diseases and complaints of heat, be skillful in performance,
timid, religious, not very intelligent and will destroy others wealth. He will be fickle-minded. He
will enjoy pleasures, be famous, will have bad (ugly) nails, be bereft of brothers, be discarded
by his father, will walk fast, will have inactive (or unlucky) children, be endowed with various
kinds of wealth and be, virtuous. His wife will belong to a base family, be virtuous and be
reproached even by her own people. The native will derive happiness and wealth in
undesirable manners.
7-9. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN TAURUS ASCENDANT.
One born in Taurus Ascendant will be brave, will endure miseries, be happy, will destroy his
enemies, will have the tendency of gathering wealth right from boyhood, will have broad and
strong forehead, nose, cheeks and lips, be industrious, fortunate, devoted to parents, liberal,
will have many expenses, be very short-tempered, be phlegmatic and windy in humour, be
the father of (many) daughters, will insult his own men, be devoid of religion, be interested in
women, fickle minded, be fond of food and drinks and be endowed with various kinds of
robes and ornaments.
10-13. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN GEMINI ASCENDANT.
One born in Gemini Ascendant will have a dear wife, be fond of ornaments, charitable,
respectable, will have two mothers, will be favourable even to his enemies, be interested in
music, fine arts, Vedas, Shastras, amusement, poetry etc., gentle, fond of beautification, be
conceit, truthful, impatient, will have evil sons, be crafty, will have a few relatives, will possess
limbs of irregular sizes, will have round eyes, be fierce in appearance, will destroy even
fearful enemies and will be endowed with lands, jewels, gold etc.

-- 177 of 203 --

178
14-17. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN CANCER ASCENDANT.
One born is Cancer Ascendant will be timid, will have many residences, be fickle minded,
learned, intelligent, enduring, troubled by diseases of the anus, will destroy his enemies, be
crooked in disposition, sensuous, will honour Brahmins and Gods, be religious, very
phlegmatic, will possess a physique, akin to that of a female, be honoured for his virtues, will
be preceded by sisters in birth, be bereft of relatives, will have a few children, will have a
censured family and a vile wife, will enjoy others wealth, be firmly obstinate, will live in foreign
places, be valorous in his deeds, be courageous, will earn through water (i. e. products
related to water, sea travel etc.) and be endowed with wife, ornaments, robes and happiness.
18-21. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN LEO ASCENDANT.
One born in this Ascendant will be fond of eating meat, will earn wealth and honour through the
king, be bereft of religion, be dutiful in family affairs, will have a face, resembling that of a lion,
will hold a high rank of office, be majestic, strong, bold, will speak sparingly, be a miser, will
trouble others, be desirous of (eating or) worldly enjoyments, will wander in hills and forests,
be irascible, be firm in friendship, be careless, inaccessible (or inviolable), will destroy his
enemies, will have famous sons, will honour the virtuous, be rich through agriculture etc.,
interested in business and will spend heavily on prostitutes, dancers and his own wife and will
suffer dental diseases.
22-25. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN VIRGO ASCENDANT.
One born in Virgo Ascendant will be gentle, skillful in training (or teaching others), music, poetry
and fine arts be a sweet speaker, be affectionate, interested in charitable and serving others,
will sport with virgins, be endowed with goodness, merciful, will enjoy others wealth, will
wander, will have a females disposition, be modest, be a liar, will attempt to enlarge his
landed properties, be fortunate, sensuous, famous, virtuous, beautiful, will honour elders, be
sinful, inimical to brothers, will have (more) daughters, be phlegmatic and windy in humour
and will be away from base and inimical people.
26-29. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN LIBRA ASCENDANT.
One born in Libra Ascendant will have a crooked physique, be bereft of virtues, be fickle minded,
will have increasing and decreasing wealth, be bereft of physical happiness, be phlegmatic
and windy in humour, be fond of promoting quarrels, will have a long face and a long
physique, be virtuous, learned, very miserable, very intelligent, will injure others honour, will
possess beautiful and black eyes, will honour guests, Gods and Brahmins, will perform
Yagnas etc., will respect preceptors (or elders) , be respectable, will help the helpless, be
truthful, will have a beautiful body, will be affectionate to brothers, be pre-eminent, chaste, will
yet help sinners, will have mean profession, be charitable, be religious and baseminded.
30-33. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN SCORPIO ASCENDANT.

-- 178 of 203 --

179
One born in Scorpio Ascendant will have fleshy and broad limbs, (as though) perfected by
exercises, be clever, crooked in innate disposition, valorous, attached to his mother inclined
to quarrel, generous, will have majestic and tawny eyes, a prominent chest, a sunken belly
and depressed nose, be adventurous, firm, fierce, trustworthy, amusing, be troubled by
bilious complaints, will have a big family, will betray his preceptors (or elders) and friends, be
engaged in attracting other women, will have an attractive face, will serve a king, will have
enemies, be pious, will give his money to others, will possess an amiable wife, be religious,
affectionate and base.
34-37. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN SAGITTARIUS ASCENDANT. One born in Sagittarius Ascendant
will have big teeth and prominent forehead, will patronize dependents, be courageous,
strong, just, will have very fat thighs and belly, be skillful in Shastras, be of high intelligence,
be irascible, short tempered even with mighty men, be im portant among the men of his race,
will destroy enemies, be famous through battles, will fault his relatives, be interested in fine
arts etc., will have own profession, will do good to his men, be splendourous, be afflicted with
facial and eye diseases, will earn wealth through royal favours and be virtuous.
38-41. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN CAPRICORN ASCENDANT. One born in Capricorn Ascendant
will have an emaciated body, be timid, will have a face, akin to that of a deer, be troubled by
windy diseases, will have a bright and elevated nose, be not mighty, will have many sons, be
hairy-bodied, will have broad feet and hands, be devoid of conduct and virtues, be tormented
by thirst (or morbid heat), be dear to the fair sex, will wander in hills and forests, be valorous,
will have knowledge of Shastras, Vedas, fine arts, music and musical instruments, will have
little strength, be a householder, be hostile, wicked, ill disposed to relatives, splendourous,
will have a wicked wife, will not be a talebearer, be wealthy, virtuous, will serve a king, be
very liberal, happy and fortunate.
42-45. EFFECTS OF BIRTH IN AQUARIUS ASCENDANT.
One born in Aquarius Ascendant will indulge in mean acts, be principal among the men of his
race, be foolish, will have blown and sharp nose, be base, irascible, indolent, inclined to
enmity, dissatisfied, harsh, be fond of gambling and of base females, will not be helpful to
relatives, be agitated, will have checkered prosperity, will acquire wealth, be a talebearer, be
crafty, will suffer penury, will face loss of relatives, be prohibited (in social circles), be not
agreeable, will acquire great wealth and will honour elders. At birth Aquarius is not an
auspicious Ascendant for ever, according to Satyacharya. Yavanas go a step further, stating,
that even Aquarius Vargas are not auspicious (at birth), while Chanakya does not consider
such divisions inauspicious.
46-49. BIRTH IN PISCES ASCENDANT.
One born in Pisces Ascendant, will be fortunate, will have well blown nose and unblown (not wide
open) eyes, will be interested in profane knowledge and poetry, be respectable, famous, will

-- 179 of 203 --

180
have exposed lips and teeth, be tormented by leprosy, will have an afflicted face, be
courteous, trustworthy, will be endowed with goats, she-goats etc., will have pure conduct,
will have knowledge of Vedas, be courageous, will have (more) daughters, be modest, gently
disposed, be mighty, will have knowledge of music and sexual union, be virtuous, liberal, will
gain through brothers and will have good relatives.
If the ascending Sign, or the Lord of the Ascendant is strong, the effects stated will fully come to
pass (in regard to all Ascendants).
Thus ends the 48th Ch. entitled LOST HOROSCOPY (through rising Signs) in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 49.
Effects Of Horas
1-2 HORAS IN ARIES.
If the first Hora of Aries ascends at birth, the native will roll his eyeballs unnecessarily, be cruel,
rich, very bright in appearance, will have a fierce wife, be tall, irascible and be a leader of
thieves.
If the second Hora of Ar ies ascends at birth, the native will be a thief, be careless, will have
afflicted foot, fingers etc., large eyes and tall stature and be very intelligent.
3-4. HORAS IN TAURUS.
If the first Hora of Taurus ascend at birth, the native will be dark in complexion, will have broad
eyes, fore face and chest, be eminent, disposed to carnal pleasures and will have strong
bones and strong physique.
If the second Hora of Taurus ascend at birth, he will have broad, long and round (i.e. muscular)
limbs, be liberal, will have attractive hair, thin waist and eyes, akin to that of an ox.
5-6. HORAS IN GEMINI.
If the first Hora of Gemini be the Ascendant, the native will have a long waist, be very skillful, will
have a moderate physique and soft hair and feet, be courageou s and fond of sexual union,
be wealthy and learned.
Born in the second Hora of Gemini, one will have beautiful and large eyes, be sensuous, soft, be
a gifted speaker and be attached to others housewives.
7-8. HORAS IN CANCER.
If the birth be in the first half of Cancer, one will be endowed with elevated body, (i.e. be
prominent in appearance), a beautiful head, eminence and intelligence, be weak sighted, will
have limbs moving off and on, be crafty, dark in complexion, ungrateful and will have broken
teeth.

-- 180 of 203 --

181
If the birth be in the second half of Cancer, he will be fond of gambling and travels, will have a
broad chest, be quite truthful, irascible and will have a harsh physique.
9-10. HORAS IN LEO.
One born in the first Hora of Leo will have blood-red eyes, be bold, be endowed with a large and
long physique, be crooked, happy and decidedly firm in his undertakings.
One born in the later half of Leo will be fond of women, sweets, foods, drinks and robes, will
move frequently, will have a harsh physique, be liberal, fond of travels, will have a few sons,
will enjoy pleasures and be firm in friendship.
11-12. HORAS IN VIRGO.
If the birth be in the initial half of Virgo, the native concerned will have a soft and beautiful body,
be a sweet speaker, be fond of music, females and sexual union, be sweet, fortunate and
excellent.
Born in the second half of Virgo one will be short-statured, will have knowledge of Hatha Yoga
and Vedas, will possess a big head, be agreeable, argumentative, learned in service, drawing
and writing, will have checkered prosperity and (yet) be happy.
13-14. HORAS IN LIBRA.
If the first Hora of Libra ascends at birth one will have a round face, elevated nose and back and
large eyes, be sportive, will have a strong body and strong bones, be wealthy and will be
affectionate to his men.
If the second Hora of Libra ascends at birth, he will be very wealthy, will have firm wealth, will be
endowed with black and curly hair, be crafty, round-eyed, will have a strong lower body and
attractive skin and will have defective feet.
15-16. HORAS IN SCORPIO.
One born in the first half of Scorpio will have blood-red eyes, be adventurous in acts, be valorous
in battle, wicked, fond of females and be rich.
If born in the second half of Scorpio, one will have broad, well grown, long and fleshy limbs, will
serve a king, will have many debts and many friends and will possess blown eyes (expanded,
as a flower).
17-18. HORAS IN SAGITTARIUS.
One born in the first half of Sagittarius will possess a wide and split face and chest, with eyes and
neck contracted (i.e. small), will be discarded by elders in boyhood and be pious.
If the later half of Sagittarius rises, one will possess eyes akin to the petals of a lotus and long
arms, will have knowledge of Shastras, be good in app earance, will speak sweetly, be
fortunate and famous.
19-20. HORAS IN CAPRICORN.

-- 181 of 203 --

182
If the first half of Capricorn be on the Ascendant, the native will be dark in complexion, will
possess eyes, like that of a deer, be fortunate, will conquer women, be beautiful, crafty,
opulent, will eat purified food, will do good acts and will have elevated nose.
If born in the second half of Capricorn one will have blood-red eyes, be indolent, be interested in
long travels, be foolish, dark in complexion, will have a hairy physique, be clever and fierce.
21-22. HORAS IN AQUARIUS.
One born in the first half of Aquarius will be endowed with a female and with friends, be a person
of tastes, or feelings (or be an alchemist), be soft in disposition, will have a few sons, be
virtuous, valorous, will be endowed with physical complexion akin to copper, be radiant and
interested in travels.
If born in the second half of Aquarius, one will have copper -brilliant eyes, be emaciated, firm, very
insignificant in appearance, indolent, not outspoken, very dejected, miserly and very crafty.
23-24. HORAS IN PISCES.
One born in the first 15 degrees of Pisces will be short-statured, be endowed with broad and
beautiful body, a large fore face, large face and broad chest, be dear to women, be very
famous, skillful and valorous.
If born in the second Hora of Pisces, one will be liberal, will have an elevated nose, be skillful,
intelligent, will possess charming eyes be dear to king and will speak affably.
25. The (good effects) due to a Hora will come to pass in full measure, if either the Sun, or the
Moon is strong in aspect to the Ascendant Lord, or, if the Ascendant Lord is himself in an
Angle.
Thus ends the 49th Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF HORAS (lost horoscopy) in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.
Chapter 50.
Effects Of Decanates
1-3. DECANATES IN ARIES.
One born in the first decanate of Aries will be charitable, be a thief, be splendourous, will have
checkered prosperity, be fierce in battle (or in quarrels), pleasing in appearance and will inflict
punishment on relatives.
If born in the second decanate of Aries, he will be attached to females, will wander, be interested
in carnal pleasures and music, be intelligent, be endowed with friends and wealth, be good-
looking and will have an eye on womens property.

-- 182 of 203 --

183
If born in the third decanate of Aries, he will be virtuous, will fault others, be fickle minded, mighty,
will serve a king, be attached to his own men, be very righteous and honourable, but not
learned.
4-6. DECANATES IN TAURUS.
If the birth be in the first decanate of Taurus, one will be fond of food and drinks, be tormented
due to separation of his wife, endowed with robes and ornaments and will act according to
the desires of his wife.
If the birth be in the second decanate of Taurus, one will be beautiful, liked by women, will have
large lips, be endowed with beauty and wealth, firmly wealthy, intelligent and attached to
mean women.
If the birth be in the third decanate of Taurus, one will be skillful, be not very fortunate, be
valorous, dirty and will repent after spending money.
7-9. DECANATES IN GEMINI.
One born in the first decanate of Gemini will have broad and excellent limbs, be wealthy, lofty,
deceiving, virtuous, sportive, honoured by the king and be a good speaker.
One born in the second decanate of Gemini will be miserly, dreaming, conquered by the fair sex,
self respected, endowed with co-born, fickle-minded, sportive and tormented by many
diseases.
One born in the third decanate of Gemini will hate women, will have a large head, will have
enemies, be lofty, will possess rough nails and will not have firm wealth.
10-12. DECANATES IN CANCER.
One born in the first decanate of Cancer will honour Brahmins and Gods, be fickle-minded, fair in
complexion, will help others, be intelligent, pleasing in appearance, will possess a fortunate
wife and be himself fortunate.
One born in the second decanate of Cancer will be miserly, dreaming, conquered by the fair sex,
self-respected, endowed with co-born, fickle minded, sportive and be tormented by many
diseases.
One born in the third decanate of Cancer will lose his firmness to females, be wealthy, intent on
living in foreign places, fond of wine, be virtuous, will have liking for forests wine, have
diseased eyes and will like garlands etc.
13-l5. DECANATES IN LEO.
One born in the first decanate of Leo will be liberal, will maintain people, will conquer his
enemies, will have abundant wealth, many wives and good friends, will serve many kings and
be very mighty.
One born in the second decanate of Leo will perform beneficial acts, be liberal, firm, fond of
quarrels, happy, will follow the rules of Vedas and be intelligent.

-- 183 of 203 --

184
One born in the third decanate of Leo will be a miser, will steal others wealth, be free from
sickness, hard-hearted, very intelligent, roguish, will have a narrow physique, be pre-eminent
and will have many children.
16-18. DECANATES IN VIRGO.
One born in the first decanate of Virgo will be dark in complexion, will speak affably, be modest,
lofty, beautiful, will gain wealth through females, be ominous and will have a long head and
honey coloured eyes.
One born in the second decanate of Virgo will be bold, will live in foreign places, be skillful in fine
arts, fables and battles, be garrulous, will honour Vedic teachings and be dear to forest tribes.
Birth in the third decanate of Virgo indicates one enjoying music and others wealth. He will be
dear to king, short in stature and will be endowed with large head and large eyes.
19-21. DECANATES IN LIBRA.
If the Ascendant be in the first decanate of Libra, one will be akin to Cupid in physical charm, be
skillful, will enjoy travels, be dark in complexion, fond of arts and business, will fulfill
appointed tasks and be very learned.
If the Ascendant be in the second decanate of Libra, one will have eyes of the lotus-kind, be
charming, affable in speech, valorous, famous and will perform acts to increase the
reputation of ones race and family.
If the Ascendant be in the third decanate of Libra one will be fickle minded, crafty, ungrateful,
crooked, will lose friends and wealth and will not be very intelligent.
22-24. DECANATES IN SCORPIO.
If birth be in the first decanate of Scorpio, the native will be fair in complexion, firm in disposition,
fierce in temperament, interested in battle, broad-eyed, fat and broad physiques and fond of
promoting quarrels.
One will be fond of purified food, be skillful, will have rolling eyes, be gold-coloured in complexion,
splendourous, endowed with others wealth, virtuous and skillful in arts, if the Ascendant be in
the second decanate of Scorpio.
One born in the third decanate of Scorpio will be devoid of beard, mustache etc., be torturous, will
have tawny eyes and large belly, be an assailant, will incur loss of brothers and will possess
long hands and brave heart.
25-27. DECANATES IN SAGITTARIUS.
One born in the first decanate of Sagittarius will have a round face and round eyes, be chief
among his men, will advance due to his own efforts, will have good conduct and be soft in
disposition.
If the birth be in the second decanate of Sagittarius, one will be expert in Shastras, be a good
speaker, will perform hundred yagnas (i.e. many sacrifices), will have knowledge of Mantras,
be excellent in disposition and will visit many shrines.

-- 184 of 203 --

185
If born in the third decanate of Sagittarius, one will be chief of his relatives, be skillful, will always
take to virtuous path, be sensuous, will enjoy other women, be charming, famous and
successful.
28-30. DECANATES IN CAPRICORN.
One born in the first decanate of Capricorn will have long hands, be dark in complexion,
charming, famous, crafty, sparing in speech, be conquered by ladies, will perform superior
acts and be wealthy.
One born in the second decanate of Capricorn will have a small face, be fickle minded, will steal
the wealth of other women, skillful, be a fortune-teller, be liberal and will suffer from diseases
of the feet.
One born in the third decanate of Capricorn will be garrulous, dirty, emaciated, long-limbed,
devoid of father and will be reduced to evils in foreign places.
31-33. DECANATES IN AQUARIUS.
One born in the first decanate of Aquarius will be endowed with wife, honour and fame, be very
efficacious, lofty, devoted to his duties, wealthy and will serve a king.
If born in the second decanate of Aquarius, one will be a miser, be skillful, sweet, fair
complexioned, tawny and broad eyed, will earn wealth through amusement, will speak
unhesitatingly, be intelligent and will be endowed with many friends.
If born in the third decanate, one will be tall in stature, crafty, valorous, emaciated, short-armed,
be endowed with sons and wealth, hard-hearted, will tell many lies, be crooked in nature, will
have afflicted eyes and will have knowledge of sexology.
34-36. DECANATES IN PISCES.
If the Ascendant is in the first decanate of Pisces, one will have honey coloured and tawny eyes,
be fair in complexion, very learned, will perform virtuous deeds, be happy, will undertake trips
by sea etc. and be modest.
If it be the second decanate of Pisces, one will be skillful in serving the fair sex, will eat purified
food, will enjoy others wealth, be sensuous, dear to females and virtuous people and be an
excellent person.
If born in the last decanate of Pisces one will be dark in complexion, be skillful in arts, will have
wide feet, will be generous with friends and will consume purified food and drinks.
37. Thus spoke of the decanates the preceptors well-versed in that branch. Should the Sign
holding the decanate be strong, or be aspected by its Lord, these effects will mature in full.
Thus ends the 50th Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF DECANATES (lost horoscopy) in Kalyana Varmas
SARAVALI.

-- 185 of 203 --

186
Chapter 51.
Effects Of Navansas
1. A natives complexion, disposition and appearance can be deduced based on the rising
Navansa at birth. The effects being stated infra will depend on the stronger of the two, viz. the
Moons Navansa dispositor and the Navansa Lagna Lord.
2-10. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN ARIES.
Following are the effects of births in the nine Navansas in Aries Ascendant: Effects of Aries
Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have a face, resembling that of a he-goat, with
nose and shoulders not being very prominent. He will have a fierce voice, ugly appearance
and narrow eyes. His body will be thin, but free from defects. Effects of Aries Ascendant,
Second Navansa: The native will be dark in complexion, will have broad shoulders and long
arms. small forehead, strong collar bones, sharp sight and prominent face and nose. He will
be an affable speaker and will possess weak legs. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Third
Navansa: The native will suffer loss of hair, be fair in complexion, will have irregular
(defective) arms, charming eyes and nose, will be a scholar in direct poetic ability and will
have weak thighs. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will have an
erratic sight, be irascible, short-nosed, wandering-natured, will have rough legs and coarse
hair, be bereft of co-born and emaciated. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The
native will be fierce and will have eyes, resembling that of a supreme elephant, a fat nose,
thick eye brows, wide fore face, fat body and coarse hair. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Sixth
Navansa: The native will be dark in complexion, soft in disposition, will have eyes, akin to that
of a deer, be tall in stature, will have irregular (defective) stomach and hands, be a eunuch,
be timid and garrulous. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will have
complexion akin to green sprout, be fickle-minded, will possess white eyes, will marry an
unchaste lady, be malicious and will have a broad physique. Effects of Aries Ascendant,
Eighth Navansa: The native will have a face, akin to that of a monkey, be a good speaker, will
have an afflicted and tawny body, will suffer from secret diseases, be torturous, be a liar, be
fond of friends and be fierce. Effects of Aries Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be
tall, emaciated, wandering, will have defective fore face and ears, will have a face, akin to
that of a horse, will possess many names and be crooked.
11-19. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN TAURUS.
Following are the effects due to births in the Navansas belonging to Taurus Ascendant: Effects of
Taurus Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have an even and dark coloured physique,
be hard-hearted, will perform obsequies in the beginning and ending parts of his life, be base,

-- 186 of 203 --

187
will indulge in unnatural acts and will have crooked sight. Effects of Taurus Ascendant,
Second Navansa: The native will be endowed with majestic looks, be indolent, will have a
bent body, be not very intelligent, will indulge in hostile acts and be a great liar. Effects of
Taurus Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be erratic in sight, be fierce, will have a
short nose, be wandering natured, will have coarse legs and hair will have soft limbs, be
beautiful, will have broad eyes and big limbs, be interested, in Sacrifices etc. and will have
stiff legs and hands. Effects of Taurus Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be short in
stature, will be wandering natured, be easily irritable, will have eyes, akin to that of a he-goat,
be tawny in complexion, be poor and will steal others wealth. Effects of Taurus Ascendant,
Fifth Navansa: The native will be vicious, will have a well-elevated nose, will appear, like a
giant ox, will have crooked hair, be sportive, will have large shoulders and hips. Effects of
Taurus Ascendant, Sixth Navans a: The native will have beautiful eyes and hair, be firm, be
endowed with a fair complexioned physique, will speak sweetly, be pre-eminent, be fond of
amusements, be emaciated and skillful. Effects of Taurus Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The
native will be interested in females, who lost their sons, will have somewhat elevated nose
and prominent eyes, will possess a strong physique, will hate his own men and will have
stout feet and exquisite hair. Effects of Taurus Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will
have eyes, akin to that of a tiger and charming teeth, be unconquerable, will possess a full-
blown nose, will work sparingly, will have curly and bluish hair and sharp nails and be
garrulous. Effects of Taurus Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be honourable, will
not be very strong, be timid, given to anger, will possess an even and charming body, be a
rogue (or cheat), will gather money, be famous, will have a thin lower body and will prattle.
20-28. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN GEMINI.
Following are the effects of births in the nine Navansas of Gemini Ascendant: Effects of Gemini
Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have hair on the shoulders, will possess charming
and dark eyes and an elevated nose, be akin to green (Durva) grass in complexion and will
possess thin legs and thin hands. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native
will have a pot-like head, will do dirty acts, be fond of torturous deeds, will have depressed
nose, will speak much, will work much and will lead in strife and quarrels. Effects of Gemini
Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be fair in complexion, will possess blood-red eyes,
charming nose and even physique be very intelligent, will have a long face and dark eye-
brows and be a skillful speaker. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native
will possess charming eye brows and forehead, be lustful, will possess a physique with the
splendour of a blue lotus, will be broad-chested and white teethed, be soft in speech and will
have attractive hair. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will have a broad
face, strong chest and big head, be wicked, cunning and will possess charming and friendly
looks. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Sixth Navansa: The native will possess eyes with the

-- 187 of 203 --

188
hue of honey, be garrulous, will possess a broad fore face, even body and charming lips, be
a rogue, be fickle-minded and be strong. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Seventh Navansa:
The native will possess a copper coloured physique, copper red and prominent eyes and a
broad chest, be skillful in teaching and arts and be jocular in disposition. Effects of Gemini
Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will be dark in complexion, be great, intelligent, soft
in disposition, sweet in speech, will have a broad and tall physique and large and black eyes
and will be an expert in arts. Effects of Gemini Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will
have round and dark coloured eyes and charming body, be successful, very intelligent and be
fond of sexual cohabitation, poetry and worldly knowledge.
29-37. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN CANCER.
Following are the effects for births in various Navansas related to Cancer Ascendant: Effects of
Cancer Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have a clean, charming and fair coloured
physique, beaut iful hair, broad belly, impressive face, prominent eyes, thin body and thin
shoulders. Effects of Cancer Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will be blood red in
complexion, be fierce in quarrels, will like fine arts, will possess face and eyes, akin to that of
a cat, will be well disposed to sacrificing for others and will have weak knees and shanks.
Effects of Cancer Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be fair in complexion, will
possess beautiful eyes, be an eloquent speaker, will have a soft body, akin to that of a
female, be intelligent be a sparing and light worker and be indolent. Effects of Cancer
Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be black in complexion, will have pressed
eyebrows, be graceful in appearance, will have charming eyes and nose, be courageous,
liberal, will perform acts prescribed for superior caste-men and be crafty. Effects of Cancer
Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will possess voice akin to the sound of bell, crooked, or
stooping face, allied eyebrows and very long arms, be interested in worship, be bereft of
dutifulness, will injure others and be not very intelligent. Effects of Cancer Ascendant, Sixth
Navansa: The native will have a long and broad physique, charming eyes and great courage,
be fair in complexion, be a good speaker and will possess beautiful nose and big teeth.
Effects of Cancer Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will have scattered hair, big body
and sinewy knees, will be disposed to protect others families and will be akin to a crow in
appearance. Effects of Cancer Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will have a head with
bell shape, charming face, shoulders and limbs, will be a degraded artisan (i.e. an infamous
worker), will have the gait of a tortoise and crooked nose and be dark in complexion. Effects
of Cancer Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be fair complexioned, will possess eyes
resembling fish, be great, be soft-bellied, broad-chested, will have prominent chins and lips,
large, but weak knees and similar ankles.
38-46. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN LEO.

-- 188 of 203 --

189
Following effects will mature in the various Navansas prevailing in Leo Ascendant at birth: Effects
of Leo Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have an even belly (like a lion), be fierce,
will have sharp and blood-red nose and a big head, be valorous and will possess a prominent
and fleshy chest. Effects of Leo Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will have a
prominent and broad fore face, a square body, broad eyes, broad chest, long arms and big
nose. Effects of Leo Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will have hairy and broad arms,
eyes, akin to that of (Greek) partridge (said to live on moon-beams), be fickle-minded,
charitable, will have an elevated nose, pure white physique and round neck. Effects of Leo
Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will have (ash-coloured) body akin to ghee, large and
black eyes, soft hair, peculiar voice, big hands and legs and stomach, resembling that of a
frog. Effects of Leo Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will have a bell-shaped head with
limited hair, charming nose and eyes, hairy body and long belly, be fierce and will have
unsightly teeth and strong and broad cheek. Effects of Leo Ascendant, Sixth Navansa: The
native will have limited, but soft hair on his physique, white and large eyes, be tall in stature,
dark in complexion, will have proven skill (only) among females, be swaggering and be
learned. Effects of Leo Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will have a long face, be
sinewy, will have a prominent physique, be unfortunate in the matter of wife (or females in
general), dark-complexioned, fierce, hairy-bodied and be cunning and harsh in speech.
Effects of Leo Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will be endowed with excellent
speech, firm limbs, charming and majestic looks, be undutiful, poor and crafty. Effects of Leo
Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will have a face akin to a donkeys, will possess dark
eyes, long arms, charming legs and be troubled by breathing disorders.
47-55. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN VIRGO.
The various Navansas emanating from Virgo Ascendant at birth will give the following effects:
Effects of Virgo Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will possess eyes, akin to that of an
antelope, be a good speaker, be charitable, will enjoy sexual pleasures, be very rich, dark in
complexion and large hearted. Effects of Virgo Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will
have a charming face, charming eyes and fair complexion, be soft, argumentative, fickle
minded and long-bellied. Effects of Virgo Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will have
blown nose, prominent feet, long arms, pure speech, fair complexion and be friendly. Effects
of Virgo Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be learned, will be sportive with the fair
sex, be beautiful, sweet, blood red in complexion, sharp, intelligent, emaciated and will have
charming eyes and face. Effects of Virgo Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will have
large lips and hands, big body, broad chest, strong ankles and will depend on others. Effects
of Virgo Ascendant, Sixth Navansa: The native will have charming appearance, impressive
speech, splendourous body, be an exponent of Shastras, be very intelligent, skillful in writing
and fine arts, be good hearted and will take pleasure in walking, or roaming. Effects of Virgo

-- 189 of 203 --

190
Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will have a small face, elevated nose, compact
arms, very fair complexion, prominent belly, hands and legs and will have fear for water.
Effects of Virgo Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will be very beautiful, fair in
complexion, tall in stature, will have charming eyes, be fierce, honourable and will have long
and stout arms and brown hair. Effects of Virgo Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be
famous, will have charming physique, broad eyes, incomparable vigour, be skillful, be with
stooping shoulders and be learned a writer.
56-64. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN LIBRA.
The various Navansas out of Libra Ascendant at birth will produce following effects: Effects of
Libra Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will be fair complexioned, broad eyed,
praiseworthy, long-faced, skillful in business, happy and famous. Effects of Libra Ascendant,
Second Navansa: The native will have squint and round eyes, elevated (ill formed) teeth,
depressed waist, charming neck, large (physical) heart, ugly body and compact brows.
Effects of Libra Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be fair in complexion, will have a
face, akin to that of a horse, be thin-bodied, famous, long-haired and long-nosed and will
have beautiful legs. Effects of Libra Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will have weak
hands, be timid, will have ill-formed teeth (some placed over others), weak body, rolling eyes,
small nails, dark complexion and be devoid of virtues and be miserable. Effects of Libra
Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will have majestic looks, be firm disposition, be not
proud, rough haired, even-eyed and will possess a beautiful nose. Effects of Libra Ascendant,
Sixth Navansa: The native will have fleshy limbs, be fair in complexion, will have broad eyes,
beautiful nose and white nails, be diplomatic and be learned in Shastras. Effects of Libra
Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will be blood-red in complexion, be intelligent, will
have long physique and long arms and a big head, be miserly, fierce and intelligent. Effects
of Libra Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will have elevated shoulders and prominent
neck, will enjoy pleasures, will have a coarse physique, long and dark brows, be a polite
speaker and will have a beautiful chest and bruised head. Effects of Libra Ascendant, Ninth
Navansa: The native will have charming eyes, pleased mind, be fair complexioned, even and
beautiful bodied, be skillful, fond of arts, be charitable and jocular.
65-73. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN SCORPIO.
The Ascendant Scorpio will produce various following effects according to the nine Navansas
thereof. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will be short in stature, will
have prominent lips and nose, charming forehead, strong and fair complexioned body with
belly, akin to that of a frog and will act, as a marriage broker (ascertaining genealogies and
negotiating marital alliances). Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will
be fair in complexion, will possess a strong and broad chest and shoulders and reddish eyes,
will conquer his enemies be valorous and will have abundant hair. Effects of Scorpio

-- 190 of 203 --

191
Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be learned, will have strong shoulders and arms
and beautiful hair, be endowed with clear speech, fair complexion and charming lips. He is
born of a virgin. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be intent upon
joining others wives, will induce others to be active, be valorous, tall, dark in complexion,
dark-haired and dark eyed. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will be
majestic, will possess copper-red eyes, depressed nose, be courageous, proud, will perform
fearful acts, be famous and will have a strong physique. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Sixth
Navansa: The native will be impudent, intelligent of a high order, will have elevated nose and
great strength, will be endowed with knowledge of justice (or be diplomatic), be skillful, will
possess less hair and compact brows. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The
native will have a split face, strong body, teeth in various sizes, depressed belly, squint sight
and be very splendourous. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will
have blown nose, be dark in complexion, devoid of virtues, dirty in appearance, will possess
stiff hair and be foolhardy. Effects of Scorpio Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will have
a fair coloured physique, be beautiful, like a deer, will possess calm and tawny eyes and
similar hair and strong body and be amiable to elders.
74-82. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN SAGITTARIUS.
The native born in Sagittarius Ascendant, but in its various Navansas will obtain following
effects: Effects of Sagittarius Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have charming big
nose, will possess sight, akin to that of a goat, be a gifted speaker, will have charming teeth
and hair, be fair in complexion, will have inset testicles and be fierce. Effects of Sagittarius
Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will have a prominent head, be firm in disposition,
will have large eyes, strong waist and knees, ugly nose, tall stature and firm cheeks. Effects
of Sagittarius Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will have skill in educating and in fine
arts, be majestic, just, fond of females, intelligent and jocular. Effects of Sagittarius
Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be skillful, be tawny in complexion, will possess
round eyes, fair-coloured physique and a belly akin to tortoise, be intelligent, wandering-
natured, will have charming hair and charming appearance. Effects of Sagittarius Ascendant,
Fifth Navansa: The native will have large ears, eyes and face, will possess a (majestic)
physique, like a lion, widely spread eye brows, strong shoulders and arms, hairless physique
and firm disposition. Effects of Sagittarius Ascendant, Sixth Navansa: The native will have
beautiful and large eyes, broad forehead and broad face, be a poet, be mean and interested
in scholarly discussions. Effects of Sagittarius Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will
be dark in complexion, soft in disposition, will keep up his promise, will have a prominent
head, will be interested in accumulating savings, be tall in stature, will possess broad eyes
and be liberal. Effects of Sagittarius Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will be flat -
nosed, broad headed, inimical, erratic sighted, garrulous and be dear to elders. Effects of

-- 191 of 203 --

192
Sagittarius Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be fair in complexion, will have a face,
akin to that of a horse and broad and dark eyes, will speak sparingly, be truthful, miserable
and will possess crooked walking limbs.
83-91. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN CAPRICORN.
The various Navansas resulting in the Ascendant Capricorn will emanate the following
effects: Effects of Capricorn Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will have interstice and
outwardly visible teeth, be dark in complexion, will speak with broken words, or be
stammering, will have coarse hair, be famous, be interested in music and amusement, be
emaciated and will have fluctuating wealth. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant, Second
Navansa: The native will be indolent, crafty, crooked nosed, fond of music, broad bodied, be
interested in many females, will prattle much and be skillful. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant,
Third Navansa: The native will have lust for music, be famous, fair complexioned, be
endowed with superior looks and charming nose, will be fond of many friends and relatives
and achieves fulfillment of desires. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The
native will have round eyes with a mix of blood-red and black hue, large forehead, emaciated
body and thin arms, scattered hair, interstice teeth and broken speech. Effects of Capricorn
Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will have prominent neck, nose and belly, will enjoy
pleasures, be attached to women, be dark in complexion, will have round knees and arms
and will attain successful beginnings in his undertakings. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant,
Sixth Navansa: The native will possess a splendourous body, will attire charmingly, be
libidinous, will possess small and even teeth, be a good speaker and will have big cheeks
and large forehead. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will be
dark in complexion, be indolent, be an eloquent speaker, be short-haired, big-bodied, be
harsh in disposition, will possess soft hands and legs, be intelligent and very virtuous. Effects
of Capricorn Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will be endowed with majestic sight and
charming nose, reddish face, uneven nails and hair, grotesque body and forehead protruding,
like a pot. Effects of Capricorn Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will have broad chest
and large eyes, high intelligence, fully developed face, interest in musical studies, be
endowed with sweetness and strength, be gentle and diplomatic.
92-100. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN AQUARIUS.
The various Navansas ascending, while Aquarius is on the East will produce following
effects: Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, First Navansa: The native will be dark in complexion,
be soft in disposition, will have an emaciated body and prominent cheeks, be learned in
poetry and Shastras, be libidinous, interested in carnal pleasures and be splendourous.
Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, Second Navansa: The native will possess coarse skin, nails,
sight and hair, be kind to the helpless, be gentle, be tall in stature, foolish and will have a
distinct head. Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will have a compact

-- 192 of 203 --

193
body (limbs sticking close to each other), be fond of females, will possess the splendour of
lapis lazuli, be learned in the meanings of Shastras and will act accordingly. Effects of
Aquarius Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will be fond of women, be fair in
complexion, will have a split face, will destroy enemies, be majestic, courageous and be fond
of pleasures and sexual enjoyments. Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The
native will be learned in clear meanings of Shastras and in fine arts, will have coarse hair on
legs, concealed (not prominent) neck and ears and be dark in complexion. Effects of
Aquarius Ascendant, Sixth Navansa: The native will have a face, resembling that of a tiger,
be bold, short-haired, will have unchanging aims, will kill living beings viz. tiger, deer, snake
etc. and be dear to king. Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The native will
have eyes and face, resembling that of a goat, be fierce in disposition, be delighted in village
life, insulted by females, will suffer diseases of bilious imbalances and be endowed with
strength and courage. Effects of Aquarius Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The native will
possess an un-diminishing strength, firm be disposition and affection, be a warrior with the
king, or be a king himself, be beautiful and will have strong teeth and broad eyes. Effects of
Aquarius Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The native will be dark in complexion, will possess
unclean and elevated teeth, be disunited from his wife, children and wealth, be an affable
speaker and be famous and skillful.
101-109. EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS IN PISCES.
Should Pisces ascend at birth, the various Navansas thereof will yield following specific
effects: Effects of Pisces Ascendant, First Navansa: Though the native may be white in
complexion, his body will reveal the splendour of blood-red hue; he will be soft in disposition,
be akin to a female in mental make up, (i.e. will act, like a female), be fickle-minded and will
have a short neck and emaciated waist. Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Second Navansa: The
native will have a big nose, be skillful in his assignments, will eat meat and the like, be
endowed with a charming physique, will wander in forests and hills and will have a big head.
Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Third Navansa: The native will be white in complexion, be
crafty, will possess beautiful eyes, be beautiful, righteous, learned, courteous, modest and
charming in appearance. Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Fourth Navansa: The native will have
praiseworthy attributes, will fall into adversity, will serve aged people, be skillful in his
assignments, learned, very strong versed in justice and will have elevated nose. Effects of
Pisces Ascendant, Fifth Navansa: The native will be tall in stature, dark in complexion, be
valorous, be not peaceful, will have a small nose and charming eyes, be fond of torturing
others, be impatient, will possess beautiful teeth and prattle. Effects of Pisces Ascendant,
Sixth Navansa: The native will be self-respected, righteous, excellent, strong, miserable,
crafty, unsteady and be a minister. Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Seventh Navansa: The
native will be self-respected, will show interest in other religions, be excellent, be a minister,

-- 193 of 203 --

194
strong, miserable, cruel and unsteady. Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Eighth Navansa: The
native will be tall in stature, will have a big head, be emaciated, indolent, will have uneven (or
dirtied) eyes and hair, will have foolish children (or a few children), be interested in earning
money and be skillful in war (or quarrels). Effects of Pisces Ascendant, Ninth Navansa: The
native will be short, soft in disposition, courageous, broad-chested, broad eyed, big nosed, be
bright, will have a broad physique, be intelligent, virtuous and famous.
110. ABOUT OTHER DIVISIONS. The effects described in regard to individual Signs apply to
Dwadasamsas of each Sign as well. Regarding effects for various other divisions not
explained, the effects related to Saptamsas will apply.
Thus ends the 51st Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF NAVANSAS (lost horoscopy) in Kalyana
Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 52.
Lost Horoscopy
1. THE NATAL AYANA.
If the Ascendant at the time of query (related to tracing the lost birth data) be within the first
15 of a Sign, the birth was in Uttarayana and beyond these degrees Dakshinayana.
2-3. BIRTH RITU ETC.
The strongest of the planets in the Prashna Lagna indicates the Ritu (season) at birth. Should
there be none in the Ascendant, the Lord of the ascendant decanate is the ruler of Ritu at
birth. Should there be a clash in the Ayana and Ritu arrived at, the Ritu Lords arrived should
be interchanged thus: the Moon for Venus, Mercury for Mars and Jupiter for Saturn. The
respective month of the Ritu is decided depending on the first, or second half of the decanate
being Ascendant. The degrees elapsed in the decanate will be to the knowledge of the natal
Tithi. Some say, that this will lead to locating the natal Sun.
4-9. OTHER NATAL FACTORS.
The query Ascendant be multiplied by 2 and divided by 5 to get the natal Jupiters placement.
This should be adjusted to actual placement guessing the natives age approximately, by
increasing, or decreasing multiples of 12. If the query Ascendant is in a day Sign, declare
birth during night. Otherwise, the contrary prevails. The degree elapsed in the query
Ascendant will lead to the knowledge of elapsed portion of night, or day, as the case may be.
Out of the query Ascendant, the 5th and the 9th therefrom will indicate the natal Rasi (Moon
Sign), the strongest of the three prevailing. The parts of the body, viz. head etc. touched by
the querist at the time of query will also indicate the Moon Sign at birth. Alternatively the
distance between the query Ascendant and the query Moon may be added to the query Moon

-- 194 of 203 --

195
to get the position of the natal Moon. This does not apply to the Moon in Pisces at the time of
query, (i. e. the natal Moon is in Pisces itself). The Navansa Lagna at the time of query may
also be the natal Ascendant. The number of decanates between the query Ascendant and
query Sun, when added to the query Sun, will yield the natal Ascendant. The longitude of the
planet in the query Ascendant should be multiplied by the figure indicated by Chayangula
(length of shadow) at that time. This should be divided by 12, the remainder of which will
indicate natal Ascendant.
10-11. POSITION OF THE QUERIST.
The following positions of the querist will indicate the natal Ascendant. Standing, lying on the
bed, sitting, or getting up will, respectively, denote the first, 4th, 7th, or 10th from query
Ascendant becoming natal Ascendant.
12. PERSONAL NAME. The name formally given by parents to the native will indicate the
natal star. Multiply the Matras (units) of the given name by 2 and add to it the Chayangula
length. Divide this by 27 and the remainder, when counted from Dhanishta will lead to the
knowledge of birth star.
13-15. ANOTHER METHOD. Note the longitude of the query Ascendant. It should be
multiplied by 10, if the Ascendant is Leo, or Taurus, by 8 in case of Gemini, or Scorpio by 7 in
case, or Aries, or Libra, by 5 in case of Virgo and Capricorn, while for the rest of the Signs by
the number denoted, when counted from Aries. (That is 4 for Cancer, 9 for Sagittarius, 11 for
Aquarius and 12 for Pisces). If the Ascendant is occupied by Jupiter, the Ascendant
converted into minutes of arc be multiplied by 10, if occupied by Mars by 8, if by Venus by 7
and, if by others by 5. Both the products so multiplied be added together. This product by
multiplied again by 10 to know the year, Ritu and month; by 7 to know the Tithi and by 5 to
arrive at Navansa Lagna and Ishta Ghati (birth time) and be, respectively, divided by their
individual dividers (i.e. 120 for year, 2 for Ritu, 15 for Tithi and the like). Addition, or reduction
of 9 may be made in case of anomalistic answers.
16. I have explained lost horoscopic rules, as expounded by Yavana, Bhadasana etc. But
some of their rules are ambiguous. The student better understand using his judgement.
17-21. LOST HOROSCOPY BASED ON MOON.
Just as the ascending degree helps trace back the lost details, the Moon Sign may also be
used. If the Moon Sign at the time of query be a night Sign, natal Moon was in a day Sign and
vice versa. Note in what quarter of the Sign is the Moon at the time of query. Proportionately
understand the natal Moon during day, or night, as the case may be. Multiply the query Moon
by the same Rasi multiplication factor, as explained supra and, if necessary by planetary
multipliers, as applicable. Multiply the resultant product (arrived by adding the two) by 7 and
divide by 27. The remainder will represent the birth star counted from Aswini. In case of
rectification by adding 9 the counting is from Moola and, if subtraction of 9 is done count from

-- 195 of 203 --

196
Makha. The pre-division product (i.e. the product before dividing by 27, as above) should be
processed variously, as suggested earlier to know the Ritu, month, Tithi etc. at birth.
Thus ends the 52nd Ch. entitled LOST HOROSCOPY in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 53.
AshtakaVarga
1. In order to evaluate the auspicious and inauspicious effects in day-to-day life due to planetary
transits, Yavanacharyas have explained AshtakaVarga (which are detailed below).
2. THE SUNS ASHTAKAVARGA.
The Sun contributes benefic dots in his Ashtaka Varga, as under. From his own self in the 1st, 2nd,
4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs; from Mars and Saturn in similar Signs; from the Moon in
the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th Signs; from Jupiter in the 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th Signs; from Venus in
the 6th, 7th and 12th Signs; from Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th Signs and
from the Ascendant in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th and 12th Signs.
3. THE MOONS ASHTAKA VARGA.
The Moon contributes benefic points in her AshtakaVarga, as under. In the 3rd, 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th
and 11th Signs from the Sun; in the 1st, 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th and 11th Signs from her position; in the
2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs counted from Mars; in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 10th
and 11th Signs counted from Mercury; in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th and 12th Signs from
Jupiter; in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs counted from Venus; in the 3rd, 5th, 6th
and 11th Signs from Saturn and in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th Signs counted from the ascending
Sign.
4. THE ASHTAKAVARGA OF MARS.
Mars in his AshtakaVarga drops auspicious points in the various Signs from the various planets
and Ascendant, as denoted below. From the Sun in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 10th and 11th Signs; from
the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th Signs; from his own position in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th 8th, 10th and
11th Signs; from Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 11th Signs; from Jupiter in the 6th, 10th, 11th and
12th Signs; from Venu s in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th Signs; from Saturn in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th,
9th, 10th and 11th Signs and from the ascending Sign in the 1st, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th Signs.
5. THE ASHTAKAVARGA OF MERCURY.
Auspicious points are contributed by Mercury in his AshtakaVarga, as under: From the Sun in the
5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th Signs; from the Moon in the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th Signs; from
Mars and Saturn in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 12th Signs, from his own self in the 1st,
3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th Signs; from Jupiter in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th Signs; from

-- 196 of 203 --

197
Venus in 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 11th Signs and from the ascending Sign in the 1st, 2nd,
4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th Signs.
6. THE ASHTAKAVARGA OF JUPITER.
Jupiters AshtakaVarga gains auspicious points, as under. From the Sun in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th,
8th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs; from the Moon in the 2nd, 5th 7th, 9th and 11th Signs; from Mars in
the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th 10th and 11th Signs; from Mercury in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and
11th Signs; from his own self in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th Signs; from Venus in
the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th, 11th Signs; from Saturn in the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 12th Signs and from the
ascending Sign in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs.
7. THE ASHTAKAVARGA OF VENUS.
Mark benefic dots in the following places. From the Sun in the 8th, 11th and 12th Signs; from the
Moon in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th Signs; from Mars in the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 9th,
11th and 12th Signs; from Mercury in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th Signs; from Jupiter in the 5th
8th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs; from his own self in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th
Signs; from Saturn in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th Signs and from the ascending Sign
in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 11th Signs. This is called the AshtakaVarga of Venus.
8. THE ASHTAKAVARGA OF SATURN.
Saturns AshtakaVarga is prepared by inserting benefic dots in places, as denoted below. From
the Sun in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th Signs; from the Moon in the 3rd, 6th and 11th
Houses; from Mars in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 10th 11th and 12th Signs; from Mercury in the 6th, 8th, 9th,
10th, 11th and 12th Signs; from Jupiter in the 5th, 6th, 11th and 12th Signs; from Venus in the 6th,
11th and 12th Signs; from his own self in the 3rd, 5th, 6th and 11th Signs and from the ascending
Sign in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 10th and 11th Signs.
9-10. The places mentioned above are auspicious for the various planets and the others are
inauspicious. Planets transiting Signs with more benefic dots will reveal auspicious results,
while inauspicious results will come to pass in case of transits in Signs with less benefic dots.
Benefic results will be predominant, if these Signs happen to be exaltation, own, friendly etc.
and malefic effects will be ordinary. Similarly in debilitation/inimical Signs, malefic results will
be more and benefic effects will be ordinary. In giving transit effects, the Sun and Mars will be
effective, while in the beginning of the Sign, Jupiter and Venus, while in the middle of the
Sign and lastly Saturn and the Moon, while in the end of the Sign. Mercury is effective in his
transit through the whole Sign.
Thus ends the 53rd Ch. entitled ASHTAKAVARGA in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.

-- 197 of 203 --

198
Chapter 54.
Effects Of AshtakaVarga
1. Draw 13 horizontal lines intersected by 9 parallel (horizontally) lines (thus getting 96 squares)
noting the names of the 12 Signs from Aries onwards in a rightward manner and the names
of the 7 planets and Ascendant in the left hand side vertical columns. Mark the benefic dots
for each planets AshtakaVarga and malefic points (where benef ic points are absent), as per
the positions told earlier.
2. GENERAL EFFECTS.
If a planet is associated with 8 Bindus in the Sign occupied by it, even an ordinary person will
become a king; with 7 Bindus fulfilment of all desires; with 6 Bindus fame and financial gains;
with 5 Bindus happiness and friendship; with 4 Bindus eradication and misery; with 3 Bindus
loss of money; with 2 Bindus worries; with 1 Bindu bodily emaciation and with the complete
absence of Bindus there will be evils at all times.
3. EFFECTS OF THE SUNS A.V.
The association of the Sun with particular number of Bindus (auspicious points) in the Sign
occupied by him will lead to respective effects, thus; with 8 Bindus wealth from the king; 7
Bindus transcendental beauty, happiness and riches; 6 Bindus increase of valour and fame; 5
Bindus influx of money; 4 Bindus neither gainful nor losing; 3 Bindus fatigue due to (frequent)
travels (or difficulties on account of travels, proneness to accidents and the like); 2 Bindus
fear of diseases; 1 Bindu difficulties; and absence of Bindus death (or troubles of a very
severe nature).
4. EFFECTS OF THE MOONS A.V.
Note the Bindus in the Sign occupied by the Moon. If she be associated with 8 Bindus, the native
will enjoy affluence and pleasures; 7 Bindus financial gains through robes, food, scented
articles etc., 6 Bindus acquaintance with the virtuous; 5 Bindus acquisition of courage and
intelligence due to association with Brahmins (or the learned); 4 Bindus equilibrium of
happiness and grief; 3 Bindus enmity with relatives; 2 Bindus separation from kith and kin
and deprival of wealth; 1 Bindu evils and absence of auspicious pointsgrief and difficulties
following excitement.
5. EFFECTS OF THE A.V. OF MARS.
If Mars be associated with various benefic points, as denoted below in the Sign tenanted by him,
the results due will be: 8 Bindus acquisition of wealth and land and victory over foes; 7
Bindus increase of fortunes and splendour; 6 Bindus royal favours; 5 Bindus increase of
fame; 4 Bindus equality of wealth and calamity; 3 Bindus separation from co-born and

-- 198 of 203 --

199
conjugal partner; 2 Bindus troubles from king, fire and bilious disorders; 1 Bindu ulcer and
stomach diseases and absence of Bindus diseases of the eye and difficulties comparable to
death.
6. EFFECTS OF MERCURYS A.V.
The effects of Mercurys association with various auspicious points in the Sign occupied by him
will be: 8 Bindus honour from the ruler; 7 Bindus wealth, knowledge and happiness; 6 Bindus
success in all undertakings; 5 Bindus new acquaintances; 4 Bindus unemployment; 3 Bindus
mental worries on account of financial losses; 2 Bindus enmity with wife, children and friends
causing loss of courage and wisdom; 1 Bindu evils of all kinds and absence of Bindus will
bring about death.
7.EFFECTS OF JUPITERS A.V.
Based on the number of auspicious points, the Sign occupied by Jupiter will produce the following
effects: 8 Bindus spotless fame, happiness and growth of wealth; 7 Bindus fortunes and
happiness; 6 Bindus acquisition of robes, conveyances, gold etc.; 5 Bindus destruction of
enemies and success in undertakings; 4 Bindus no loss, no gain; 3 Bindus loss of hearing,
sight and masculine vigour; 2 Bindus incurring royal wrath; 1 Bindu distress due to diseases
and absence of Bindus destruction of relatives, wealth and progeny.
8.EFFECTS OF A.V. OF VENUS.
The association of Venus with various number of Bindus will generate the under mentioned
effects: 8 Bindus enjoyments of all kinds and acquisition of robes, wife, scents, food, drinks
etc.; 7 Bindus abundance of ornaments and pearls; 6 Bindus acquisition of a girl of choice; 5
Bindus association with friends; 4 Bindus equality of inauspicious and auspicious results; 3
Bindus enmity with people of his community and senior members of the village; 2 Bindus
displacement; 1 Bindu phlegmatic disorders and absence of Bindus becoming a synonym of
all kinds of evils.
9. EFFECTS OF SATURNS A.V.
If Saturn is associated with a certain number of Bindus, the effects due will be: 8 Bindus lordship
over villages, towns and people; 7 Bindus acquisition of female servants, asses and
elephants; 6 Bindus gains from thieves, hunters and Army heads; 5 Bindus advent of wealth,
corn and happiness; 4 Bindus happiness caused by association with others; 3 Bindus
destruction of progeny, wife, attendants and money; 2 Bindus imprisonment, emotions and
diseases; 1 Bindu/absence of Bindus loss of wealth, family etc.
10-12. May the astrologers be pleased with the Science of Astrology thus described by Kalyana
Varma. Ancestors, like Paulasa, Vasishta, Romasa, Yavana, Badarayana, Sakthi, Atri,
Bharadwaja, Viswamitra, Guna, Agnikesa, Garga, Parashara, Jeevasarma and a host of
others have authored elaborate texts on astrology. The science of astrology thus deals with

-- 199 of 203 --

200
the good and bad in stock for an individual with Chitragupta (the official record keeper of
Yamathe God of Deathnoting down the virtues and vices of mankind).
Thus ends the 54th Ch. entitled EFFECTS OF ASHTAKAVARGA in Kalyana Varmas SARAVALI.
Chapter 55.
Manifold Births
1. Acharya Kanakas school of thought dealing with Manifold Births is narrated in this Ch. for the
pleasure of the astrologers and the common folk.
2. Lord Brahma created this Universe at a time, when Cancer was ascending with its Lord and in
aspect to Jupiter, while the other 5 planets were in their own Signs. Should one have a
similar radix, he will rule over the three worlds enjoying the company of the celestial dames.
3. The Science of astrology delineates the immovable and the movable through respective
differences of time, omens, form etc.
4-5. If all the malefics be with strength, while benefics be bereft of it, one of the Viyoni (Viyoni
Rasis are Rasis other than Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Aquarius and the first half of Sagittarius) be
Signs ascending with Mercury and Saturn be in Angles, or in aspect to the Ascendant, the
birth will be of a creature other than human being. The birth will correspond to the
Dwadasamsa of the Ascendant, or of the Moon prevailing at Adhana, or in the radix.
6-9. The sages have explained the hue, form etc. of the manifold births based on planetary
conjunctions and aspects, which I narrate below. The Zodiac personified signifies the several
limbs of non-human species, as under: Aries face, Taurus neck, Gemini and Pisces
shoulders and forelegs, Cancer and Aquarius back, Leo and Capricorn forelegs, Virgo and
Sagittarius hind legs, Libra anus and Scorpio tail and genital organ. The right side limbs are
denoted by Signs Gemini to Libra, while left side by Signs Scorpio to Pisces.
10-12. The strongest Sign, or the strongest Navansa ascending will indicate the hue of such birth.
If the Ascendant has a strong planet in it, the hue of the animal and the wounds on its body
will correspond to such planet. If a planet is in its own Rasi/Navansa, such effects will be
unmixed, while the one in others Sign/Navansa, will give a rough version of the hue. The
animal will have a mark on its back corresponding to the hue of the planet in the 7th House, or
the one aspecting the 7th House. If there are many related thus, the hues of the mark will be
equally many, the prime effects being from the strongest of the lot.
13-14 The hue of the animal based on the occupant of the Ascendant will be: Jupiter yellow,
Moon white, Venus variegated, Sun/Mars red, Saturn black, Mercury grass-green. If the

-- 200 of 203 --

201
planet aspecting the Ascendant be in its own Sign and others Navansa, or vice versa, the
hue obtainable will be golden.
15-16. The planet in the Ascendant will be capable of giving such hue corresponding to the
phenomena it is influenced by, viz. Parigha, rainbow, cloud, Parivesh etc. Otherwise, the
planet will give the hue due to its nature alone.
17-18. If the Ascendant has in it a bird decanate (the first ones of Aquarius and Leo and the
second ones of Gemini and Libra), or a Movable Navansa (Aries Navansa and the Navansas
angular thereof), or Gemini Navansa/Virgo Navansa and be in aspect to Saturn birds residing
on lands will be born. In a similar case, the aspect of the Moon denotes births of birds
dwelling in water. If a water resorting Sign be on the Ascendant in aspect to a strong planet,
birds related to water will be born. Similarly land-resorting Signs in aspect to strong planets
indicate birds of land. The hue of the bird will correspond to the planet concerned.
19. Birth of trees is indicated, if the Ascendant, Sun, Jupiter and the Moon are devoid of strength,
while others are with strength. Land resorting Signs in the Ascendant indicate trees growing
on land, while water resorting Signs indicate plants etc. coming out of water.
20-21. If the Lord of rising Navansa be the Sun, trees (or plants in this context) with hard, or
strong trunk/stem will be born. The Moon denotes ones milky and soft; Jupiter fruitful, Mars
bitter and thorny, Saturn unproductive and useless (to mankind); Venus the ones yielding
flowers and Mercury unfruitful.
22-23. If the said Lord of Ascendant in Navansa be a natural malefic being in the company of a
benefic, a sub-standard tree on excellent land is denoted, while in the case of a benefic being
Ascendant Lord in Navansa and being in the company of a malefic, the reverse is true i.e., an
excellent tree on waste land. If there is a mix in the above planetary description, both the land
and the born will be of a mixed nature Watery planets indicate plants growing in water, while
land-resorters denote trees etc. growing on earth.
24. Note how many Signs away is the Navansa Lagna Lord from the ascending Sign. So many
will be the trees in number to be born. Similarly infer by the number denoted between
Navansa Ascendant and the planets Navansa position.
25-26. Manifold birth is indicated, if benefics are in their own Navansa being bereft of strength,
while malefics with strength are in their own/other malefics Navansas. Such birth is
destroyed, if the said Navansa Lord occupies a weak planets Sign, is defeated in planetary
war, conjunct with, or aspected by a malefic.
21.Explained now is four kinds of manifold births, viz. those born of seeds (like plant, tree etc.),
those born of womb (like quadrupeds etc.), those born in dirty places (like mosquitoes etc.)
and those born of eggs (snakes, birds and the like). These are based on planetary Yogas etc.
at birth.

-- 201 of 203 --

202
28-29. A quadruped is born, if the Sun is in a quadruped Sign, while a weak planet is in a weak
Sign. I have explained the relative rules in a brief and general manner. Now told are
something surprising (more interesting) and detailed.
30-35. Should the Sun, the Moon and the Ascendant be strong in a Dwadasamsa related to a
Viyoni Sign, the birth will correspond to such Dwadasamsa. If the Moon is in Aries
Dwadasamsa in Aries Ascendant, birth of goats, rams etc., will take place. The other
Dwadasamsas related to Aries Ascendant will give following effects: Taurus cow, buffalo;
Gemini akin to a human being (like monkey, ape etc.); Cancer crab, tortoise etc., Leo tiger
etc., Virgo human beings; Libra resembling human beings, Scorpio snakes etc. Sagittarius
asses, horses etc., Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces Crocodile/human?being/fish etc. Similarly
one can guess about trees, grass etc. Just as the various Dwadasamsas of Aries have been
described, the effects for other Signs can also be understood.
36-37. The Dwadasamsa effects of the manifold births will depend on the first Dwadasamsa of a
Sign and the remaining Dwadasamsa should be understood based on the first division cited.
Just as a Dual Rasi with male Navansa causing birth of twins in the case of human beings, in
the case of other births male planets in the first Dwadasamsa being in Dual Sign etc., the
number of births be decided.
38-40. In case of a living being yielding multiples at a time (like snake, hen, bitch etc.) the number
of births will depend on Dwadasamsas past. Male/female should be decided by the
Dwadasamsas distributed in such Signs. If the Ascendant is tenanted by the
Moon/Saturn/Mercury, tortoises etc. will yield such number equaling the Dwadasamsas
elapsed. Venus, Mars, Moon, or Saturn being with strength will denote Sattva, Rajas and
TamoGunas of the births according to the Amsas.
41. If a (qualified) planet occupies other Navansas than of its own, the birth will be unnatural.
42-44. Should Scorpio ascend with a biped Navansa birth of snakes, rats, insects, mongoose,
scorpions, snakes without poison, deer, cows etc. will take place.
45-46. The divisions of Sagittarius with aspect from Jupiter denote birth of horses, asses, camels,
buffaloes etc.
47-48. Capricorn and its divisions indicate birth of forest animals, like tiger, rhinoceros, swine,
wolf elephants (Sarabha apart from meaning an elephant also denotes a fabulous 8 legged
animal said to be stronger than even a lion), eagles and the like.
49. Pisces (and its divisions) enjoying Jupiters aspect relates to creatures living in deep waters,
like giant fish, whale etc.
50. Aries (and its divisions) with the aspect of Mars portends births of goat, ram etc., while Taurus
(and its divisions) with aspect from Venus denotes cow, bull, buffalo etc.
51. Thus have to be deduced the possibilities of births of the various creatures depending on the
rising Sign with aspect of its own Lord and the divisions of the rising Sign.

-- 202 of 203 --

203
52. If a Sign resorting to towns/villages (like Gemini) Ascendant with Navansa of
Leo/Scorpio/Capricorn, such animals, though wild, as bred in villages, or townships (like
elephant, bear etc.) will take their birth.
53. In the process, Navansas of land-resorting Signs will indicate births of animals moving on
land and water-resorting Signs. , animals/creatures dwelling in water.
54 If Libra be the Ascendant in aspect to Venus, a decanate of Libra denotes birth of parrots,
flaming, partridge etc.
55. Peacock, cock/hen, francoline partridge, turtledove and birds living on (only) rain drops, are
born, if Leo rises with Suns aspect and with various own divisions.
56. If a Fixed Sign with aspect to Saturn obtaining various divisions of the same classifications
rises, births of temples, houses, choultries etc. begin. The colour, structure etc. will have to
be guessed with the help of aspecting planets, as explained earlier.
Thus ends the 55th Ch. entitled Manifold Births in Kalyana Varmas Saravali.

-- 203 of 203 --

